

[![feedback](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/feedback-button-normal.svg)](#)













[![](https://img-prod-cms-rt-microsoft-com.akamaized.net/cms/api/am/imageFileData/RE1Mu3b?ver=5c31)
Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com)



Visual
Studio



  - [Microsoft 365](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365)

  - [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com)

  - [Office 365](https://products.office.com/en-us/business/office)

  - [Dynamics 365](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/en-us/)

  - [SQL](https://www.microsoft.com/sql-server/)

  - [Windows 10](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windowsforbusiness)

  - 
    
    
    
    More
    
      - Products & Services
          - [Windows
            Server](https://www.microsoft.com/cloud-platform/windows-server)
          - [Enterprise Mobility +
            Security](https://www.microsoft.com/cloud-platform/enterprise-mobility-security)
          - [Power
            BI](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/)
          - [Teams](https://products.office.com/en-us/microsoft-teams/group-chat-software)
          - [Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/)
          - [Surface for
            Business](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/business/overview)
      - Emerging Technologies
          - [AI](https://www.microsoft.com/ai/)
          - [Internet of
            Things](https://www.microsoft.com/internet-of-things)
          - [Azure Cognitive
            Services](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/)
          - [Quantum](https://www.microsoft.com/quantum/)
          - [Research](https://www.microsoft.com/research/)
      - Developer & IT
          - [Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/)
          - [TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/ms376608.aspx)
          - [Developer Network](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us)
          - [Windows Dev
            Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
          - [Windows IT Pro
            Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/itpro/windows)
          - [FastTrack](https://fasttrack.microsoft.com/office)
      - Partner
          - [Partner Network](https://partner.microsoft.com/)
          - [Solution
            Providers](https://www.microsoft.com/solution-providers/)
          - [Partner
            Center](https://partnercenter.microsoft.com/partner/home)
          - [Cloud
            Hosting](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/cloudandhosting)
      - Industries
          - [Education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education)
          - [Financial
            services](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us)
          - [Government](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/government/)
          - [Health](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/health/)
          - [Manufacturing &
            resources](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/discrete-manufacturing/)
          - [Retail](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/retail-and-consumer-goods/)
      - Other
          - [Security](https://www.microsoft.com/security/)
          - [Licensing](https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/)
          - [AppSource](https://appsource.microsoft.com/)
          - [Azure
            Marketplace](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/marketplace/)
          - [Events](https://events.microsoft.com/)
      - [View
all](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sitemap.aspx)
    
    













Sign
in

















[Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/) [Free
Account](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=307137&clcid=0x409&wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu&campaign=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu)

[Visual Studio Team
Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/)



Features

  - [Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/git/)
  - [TFVC](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfvc/)
  - [Agile
    Tools](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/agile-tools/)
  - [CI/CD](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/continuous-integration/)
  - [All Features](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/features/)





Pricing

  - [VSTS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/pricing/)
  - [TFS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfs-pricing/)
  - [Feature
    Comparisons](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/compare-features/)





News

  - [Release
    Notes](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/release-notes/)
  - [Microsoft DevOps Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/devops/)
  - [VSTS Customer
    Stories](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/case-studies/)





Support

  - [VSTS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/support/)
  - [Team Foundation
    Server](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfs_support/)
  - [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/vsts/index)
  - [FAQ](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/faq/)



[Subscriber
Access](https://my.visualstudio.com/Benefits?wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~nav&campaign=o~msft~vscom~nav)
[Free
Account](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=307137&clcid=0x409&wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu&campaign=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu)

































[Home](https://www.visualstudio.com)/Agile
Culture



















# Agile Culture

### By Aaron Bjork



#### About the author





[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.visualstudio.com%2Flearn%2Fagile-culture%2F&t=Agile%20Culture "Facebook")[Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Agile%20Culture&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.visualstudio.com%2Flearn%2Fagile-culture%2F "Twitter")[Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/agile-culture/&title=Agile%20Culture&summary=Agile%20Culture%0D%0ABy%20Aaron%20Bjork%0D%0A%0D%0AIf%20there%E2%80%99s%20anything%20we%E2%80%99ve%20all%20learned%20in%20the%20last%20decade%20of%20%E2%80%9Cagile%20transformations%E2%80%9D%20it%E2%80%99s%20that%20there%20is%20no%20one-size-fits-all%20approach%20to%20adopting%20or%20implementing%20an%20agile%20approach.%20Every%20organization%20has%20different%20needs%2C%20con "Linkedin")[Email](mailto:?subject=Agile%20Culture&body=https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/agile-culture/ "Email")



















# Agile Culture

### By Aaron Bjork

If there’s anything we’ve all learned in the last decade of “agile
transformations” it’s that there is no one-size-fits-all approach to
adopting or implementing an
[agile](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-agile/) approach.
Every organization has different needs, constraints, and requirements.
Blindly following prescription won’t lead to success.

At the end of the day, the agile movement is about continually finding
ways to improve the approach and practice of building software. It’s not
about a perfect daily standup, or retrospective. Instead, it’s about
creating a culture where the right thing happens more often than not.
Those activities (standup, retrospective, etc.) have their place, but
they won’t change your culture.

 

![agile
culture](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/agile-culture.png)

This article details foundational elements that every organization needs
to create an agile mindset and culture. They should not be followed
blindly, but rather apply what makes sense to your environment.

## Schedule and Rhythm

First off, there is no perfect sprint length. Teams have been successful
with lots of different sprint lengths ranging from 1-4 weeks. What
matters is consistency.

Pick a sprint length that works for your culture, your product, and your
desire to provide updates. For example, the Developer Tools division at
Microsoft (roughly 6,000 people) works in a 3-week sprint. The choice of
a 3-week sprint wasn’t made by the leadership team or managers “on
high”; instead it came from direct feedback from the engineering
teams. The entire division operates on this 3-week sprint schedule. The
sprints have become the “heartbeat” of the organization. Every team is
marching to the beat of the same drum.

Pick a sprint length and stick with it., If you have multiple agile
teams, use the same sprint length across all teams. Then, listen for
feedback from your teams and see if it needs to be adjusted. You’ll know
when you’ve got it right\!

## A Culture of Shipping

[Peter Provost](https://twitter.com/pprovost) said “You can’t cheat
shipping”. The simplicity and truth of that statement is a cornerstone
of agile culture. What Peter means is that shipping your software will
teach you things that you can’t and won’t understand… unless you’re
actually shipping your software.

Human nature is to delay or avoid doing things until absolutely
necessary. This couldn’t be more true when it comes to software
development – teams punt bugs to the end of the cycle, don’t think about
setup & upgrade until their forced to, and typically avoid things like
localization and accessibility wherever possible. When this pattern
emerges, teams are building up technical debt that will need to be paid
down at a later time. But shipping demands all debt be paid. You can’t
cheat shipping. To establish an agile culture, start by trying to ship
your product at the end of every sprint. It won’t be easy at first, but
when you do this you quickly discover all the things that should be
happening, but aren’t.

## Healthy Teams

There is no recipe for the perfect agile team – however, there are a few
key characteristics that make success for an agile team much easier to
achieve:

#### Whenever possible, co-locate your teams

Can a team find success with people spread out across different
geographies? Of course. But let’s be honest… it’s more difficult. When
people are co-located and sitting in the same room, the right
conversations just tend to happen. You can have teams located across
globe and different time zones. However, do everything you can to ensure
a team is co-located together.

#### Keep your teams intact for a reasonable length of time

Allow them to master the art of building software together. When you
adjust the makeup of a team, you disrupt the team’s chemistry. There are
times when it’s appropriate to reorganize teams. However, teams
typically work better when they’re given time to learn how to work
together. As a guideline, try to keep your teams intact for at least 12
months.

#### Load balance work, not people

What happens if a team falls behind? When this happens it’s best to load
balance work to another team, rather than load-balancing people between
teams. When you pull a person off a team to help a team falling behind,
you disrupt both teams and the person being moved feels jerked around.
All of this impacts team productivity and, more likely than not,
negatively impacts your ability to get back on schedule.

When you load balance the work to another team you allow a team that is
already established to step in and help out. It becomes a priority
conversation, instead of a people conversation.

## Teams should own feature areas, not layers of architecture

Strive to build vertical teams that own feature areas. These teams are
responsible for all the work required to add features to their area,
from database to user interface changes. The team is empowered to
deliver and own an end-to-end experience.

Horizontal teams that own a layers of architecture means no single team
is responsible for the end-to-end experience. Adding a feature requires
multiple teams to coordinate and requires a higher level of dependency
management. Resolving bugs requires multiple teams to investigate
whether they own the code required to fix the bug. Bugs are batted
around as teams determine its “not their bug” and assign it to another
team.

Feature teams don’t have these issues. Ownership and accountability is
clear. There may be a place for some architectural based teams. However,
the more you can strive to build vertical teams, the more effective they
will be.

## Start your journey…

As you embark on your own agile transformation, keep these foundational
principles in mind. And remember, there is no single recipe that will
work for your organization. Agile transformations are a journey. Make
changes and learn from them. Only then can you develop an agile culture
that fits your organization.

   
![get started for
free](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/AgileGetStartedForFree_32x.png)
Get started with free agile tools in [Visual Studio Team
Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/agile-tools).



  [Aaron
Bjork](https://www.visualstudio.com/author/abjork/ "Posts by Aaron Bjork")
  
2017-10-03T12:35:18+00:00 







![Aaron
Bjork](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/Aaron-Bjork_avatar_1472225238.jpg)





### Aaron Bjork

Aaron is a Principal Group Program Manager at Microsoft where he drives
investments in work management, agile project management, reporting, and
collaboration for Microsoft’s Visual Studio Team Services (VSTS) and
Team Foundation Server (TFS) products.















  - [Back to
    Agile](https://www.visualstudio.com/agile/ "Agile")
  - [What is
    Agile?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-agile/)
  - [What is
    Scrum?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-scrum/)
  - [What is Agile
    Development?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-agile-development/)
  - [Agile
    Culture](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/agile-culture/)
  - [Scale Agile to Large
    Teams](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/scale-agile-large-teams/)
  - [Creating Productive
    Teams](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/productive-teams/)
  - [DevOps Learning
    Guide](https://www.visualstudio.com/devops/)



















  - [** DevOps at Microsoft](/learn/devops-at-microsoft/)
  - [** Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/devops/)
  - [** Learn DevOps](/learn/what-is-devops/)
  - [![](/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/git-footer-icons-dark_2.png) Learn
    Git](/learn-git/)
  - [** Learn Agile](/agile/)
  - [** DevOps Self-Assessment](https://devopsassessment.net/)













[Visual Studio Team Services](/team-services/) provides the tools you
need to continuously deliver
value





















#### What's new

  - [Surface
    Book 2](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/devices/surface-book-2/overview)
  - [Surface
    Pro](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/devices/surface-pro/overview)
  - [Xbox One X](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/xbox-one-x)
  - [Xbox One S](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/xbox-one-s?xr=shellnav)
  - [VR & mixed
    reality](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/virtualreality)
  - [Windows 10
    apps](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/windows-10-apps)
  - [Office
apps](https://store.office.com/en-us/appshome.aspx?)





#### Store & Support

  - [Account profile](https://account.microsoft.com/)
  - [Download Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download)
  - [Sales &
    support](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=824761&clcid=0x409)
  - [Returns](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=824764&clcid=0x409)
  - [Order tracking](https://account.microsoft.com/orders)
  - [Store
    locations](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/locations/find-a-store)
  - [Support](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Buy online, pick up in
    store](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/buy-online-pick-up-in-store?icid=uhf_footer_bopuis)





#### Education

  - [Microsoft in education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education)
  - [Office for
    students](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education/products/office/default.aspx)
  - [Office 365 for
    schools](https://products.office.com/en-us/academic/compare-office-365-education-plans)
  - [Deals for students &
    educators](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/student)
  - [Microsoft Azure in
    education](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/community/education/)









#### Enterprise

  - [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/)
  - [Enterprise](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/)
  - [Data platform](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server/)
  - [Find a solutions
    provider](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/solution-providers)
  - [Microsoft partner resources](https://partner.microsoft.com/en-us/)
  - [Microsoft
    AppSource](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=808093)
  - [Manufacturing &
    resources](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/discrete-manufacturing/)
  - [Financial
services](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us)





#### Developer

  - [Microsoft Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/)
  - [Windows Dev Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
  - [Developer Network](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Microsoft Virtual Academy](https://mva.microsoft.com/)
  - [Microsoft developer
    program](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/store/register)
  - [Channel 9](https://channel9.msdn.com/)
  - [Office Dev
Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/office)





#### Company

  - [Careers](https://careers.microsoft.com/)
  - [About Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/about)
  - [Company news](https://news.microsoft.com/)
  - [Privacy at Microsoft](https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Investors](https://www.microsoft.com/investor/default.aspx)
  - [Diversity and
    inclusion](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/diversity/)
  - [Accessibility](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/accessibility/home)
  - [Security](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/default.aspx)







[English (United States)](#)

  - [Contact us](https://beta.visualstudio.com/support/)
  - [Privacy &
    cookies](https://www.microsoft.com/EN-US/privacystatement/OnlineServices/Default.aspx)
  - [Terms of use](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/support/legal/)
  - [Trademarks](https://www.microsoft.com/trademarks)
  - [About our ads](http://choice.microsoft.com/)
  - © Microsoft 2018












