

[![feedback](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/feedback-button-normal.svg)](#)













[![](https://img-prod-cms-rt-microsoft-com.akamaized.net/cms/api/am/imageFileData/RE1Mu3b?ver=5c31)
Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com)



Visual
Studio



  - [Microsoft 365](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365)

  - [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com)

  - [Office 365](https://products.office.com/en-us/business/office)

  - [Dynamics 365](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/en-us/)

  - [SQL](https://www.microsoft.com/sql-server/)

  - [Windows 10](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windowsforbusiness)

  - 
    
    
    
    More
    
      - Products & Services
          - [Windows
            Server](https://www.microsoft.com/cloud-platform/windows-server)
          - [Enterprise Mobility +
            Security](https://www.microsoft.com/cloud-platform/enterprise-mobility-security)
          - [Power
            BI](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/)
          - [Teams](https://products.office.com/en-us/microsoft-teams/group-chat-software)
          - [Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/)
          - [Surface for
            Business](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/business/overview)
      - Emerging Technologies
          - [AI](https://www.microsoft.com/ai/)
          - [Internet of
            Things](https://www.microsoft.com/internet-of-things)
          - [Azure Cognitive
            Services](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/)
          - [Quantum](https://www.microsoft.com/quantum/)
          - [Research](https://www.microsoft.com/research/)
      - Developer & IT
          - [Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/)
          - [TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/ms376608.aspx)
          - [Developer Network](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us)
          - [Windows Dev
            Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
          - [Windows IT Pro
            Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/itpro/windows)
          - [FastTrack](https://fasttrack.microsoft.com/office)
      - Partner
          - [Partner Network](https://partner.microsoft.com/)
          - [Solution
            Providers](https://www.microsoft.com/solution-providers/)
          - [Partner
            Center](https://partnercenter.microsoft.com/partner/home)
          - [Cloud
            Hosting](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/cloudandhosting)
      - Industries
          - [Education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education)
          - [Financial
            services](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us)
          - [Government](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/government/)
          - [Health](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/health/)
          - [Manufacturing &
            resources](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/discrete-manufacturing/)
          - [Retail](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/retail-and-consumer-goods/)
      - Other
          - [Security](https://www.microsoft.com/security/)
          - [Licensing](https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/)
          - [AppSource](https://appsource.microsoft.com/)
          - [Azure
            Marketplace](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/marketplace/)
          - [Events](https://events.microsoft.com/)
      - [View
all](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sitemap.aspx)
    
    













Sign
in

















[Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/) [Free
Account](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=307137&clcid=0x409&wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu&campaign=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu)

[Visual Studio Team
Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/)



Features

  - [Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/git/)
  - [TFVC](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfvc/)
  - [Agile
    Tools](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/agile-tools/)
  - [CI/CD](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/continuous-integration/)
  - [All Features](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/features/)





Pricing

  - [VSTS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/pricing/)
  - [TFS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfs-pricing/)
  - [Feature
    Comparisons](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/compare-features/)





News

  - [Release
    Notes](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/release-notes/)
  - [Microsoft DevOps Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/devops/)
  - [VSTS Customer
    Stories](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/case-studies/)





Support

  - [VSTS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/support/)
  - [Team Foundation
    Server](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfs_support/)
  - [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/vsts/index)
  - [FAQ](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/faq/)



[Subscriber
Access](https://my.visualstudio.com/Benefits?wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~nav&campaign=o~msft~vscom~nav)
[Free
Account](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=307137&clcid=0x409&wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu&campaign=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu)

































[Home](https://www.visualstudio.com)/Plan
your migration to
Git



















# Plan your migration to Git

### By Matt Cooper



#### About the author





[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.visualstudio.com%2Flearn%2Fcentralized-to-git%2F&t=Plan%20your%20migration%20to%20Git "Facebook")[Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Plan%20your%20migration%20to%20Git&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.visualstudio.com%2Flearn%2Fcentralized-to-git%2F "Twitter")[Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/centralized-to-git/&title=Plan%20your%20migration%20to%20Git&summary=Plan%20your%20migration%20to%20Git%0D%0ABy%20Matt%20Cooper%0D%0AMoving%20your%20team%20from%20a%20centralized%20version%20control%20system%20to%20Git%20requires%20more%20than%20just%20learning%20new%20commands.%20To%20support%20distributed%20development%2C%20Git%20stores%20information%20about%20file%20history%20and%20branches%20in%20a%20way "Linkedin")[Email](mailto:?subject=Plan%20your%20migration%20to%20Git&body=https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/centralized-to-git/ "Email")



















# Plan your migration to Git

### By Matt Cooper

Moving your team from a centralized version control system to Git
requires more than just learning new commands. To support distributed
development, Git stores information about file history and branches in a
way that is fundamentally different from a centralized version control
system. A successful migration requires that you understand these
differences and plan your migration accordingly.

The Visual Studio Team Services team has helped numerous customers,
including teams within Microsoft, migrate from centralized version
control systems to Git. The VSTS team has developed this guidance based
on their experience.

We recommend that you:

  - Evaluate the tools and processes you’re using
  - Select a branching strategy for Git
  - Decide how to migrate history – or if you even want to
  - Maintain your old version control system
  - Remove binaries and executables from source control
  - Train your team in the concepts and practice of Git
  - Perform the actual migration to Git

### Evaluate your tools and processes

Changing version control systems will naturally disrupt your development
workflow as developers begin using new tools and practices. This
disruption can be an opportunity to improve other aspects of the
development process.

You may wish to consider:

  - Build and Test  
    When do you perform builds, and when do you run tests? Adopting
    [continuous
    integration](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-continuous-integration/),
    so that [every check-in performs a build and a test
    pass](/docs/build/define/triggers), will help you identify defects
    early and provides a strong safety net for your project.
  - Code reviews  
    Is your team performing regular code reviews? Are code reviews
    required, and are they happening before the code is checked in?
    Git’s branching model makes a [pull
    request](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/git-pull-requests/)-based
    code review workflow a natural part of your development process, and
    pull requests complement a continuous integration workflow nicely.
  - Release Management  
    Are you performing [continuous
    delivery](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-continuous-delivery/)?
    Moving to different version control tools will require you to make
    changes to your deployment processes, so a migration is a good time
    to adopt a modern release pipeline and automate your deployment
    processes.

### Select a branching strategy

Before migrating your code you should [select a branching
strategy](/articles/git-branching-guidance). Using long-lived, isolated
feature branches is discouraged; this tends to delay merges until
integration becomes very challenging. By using modern continuous
delivery techniques like [“feature
flags”](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-continuous-delivery/),
you can integrate code into the main branch quickly, but still keep
in-progress features hidden from users until they’re complete.

Short-lived “topic” branches allow developers to work close to the main
branch and integrate quickly, avoiding merge problems. Two common topic
branch strategies are
[GitFlow](http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/) and a
simpler variation, [GitHub
Flow](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/index.html), which you
can adopt or look to for inspiration.

If you’re currently using a long-lived feature branch strategy, it may
be easiest to begin adopting feature flags before migrating to Git, so
that you need to migrate as few branches as possible. Be sure to
document the mapping between legacy branches and the new branches in Git
so that your team understands where they should commit their new work.

### Migrating history

You may be tempted to migrate your existing source code’s history to
Git. There are numerous tools that claim to migrate a complete history
of all branches from a centralized tool to Git, and at first glance this
may seem like a good solution. A Git commit appears to map relatively
well to the changeset or check-in model that your previous version
control tool used, but there are some serious limitations with this
translation:

  - In most centralized version control systems, all branches exist as
    folders inside the repository. For example: the main branch may be a
    folder named `/trunk` while other branches exist as folders like
    `/branch/one` and `/branch/two`. In a Git repository, branches
    instead apply to the entire repository and a 1:1 translation may be
    difficult.
  - In some version control systems, a “tag” or a “label” is a
    collection that can contain various files in the tree, perhaps even
    files at different versions. In Git, a tag is a snapshot of the
    entire repository at a specific point in time and it cannot
    represent a subset of the repository or combine files at different
    versions.
  - Most version control systems store details about the way files
    change between versions, recording fine-grained change types like
    rename, undelete and rollback. Git stores versions as a snapshot of
    the entire repository, and the metadata about how files change is
    not available.

These differences mean that a full history migration will be lossy, at
best, and possibly even misleading. Given this lossiness, the effort
involved in performing a migration with history and the relative rarity
that this history is used, we suggest that you avoid importing history
and instead perform a “tip migration”, bringing only a snapshot of the
most recent version of a branch into Git.

For most development teams, the time spent trying to migrate history is
typically better spent on other areas of the migration that have a
higher return on investment, especially improving processes. The VSTS
team has observed this while migrating numerous customers from a
centralized system to Git, including many customers at Microsoft. In
almost all cases, we recommend the tip migration.

### Maintaining your old version control system

During and after a migration, developers will still need access to the
history in your old version control system, so you can’t simply shut the
old system down once you’ve migrated. This is especially true if you’ve
only done a tip migration: although the old version control history
becomes less relevant over time, it is still important to be able to
refer back to it, and highly regulated environments may have specific
legal and auditing requirements about version control history. Instead,
set the old version control system read-only once you have performed a
migration.

For large development teams and regulated environments, we recommend
placing “breadcrumbs” in Git that point users back to the old version
control system. A simple example is a text file at the root of a Git
repository, added as the first Git commit, before the tip migration,
pointing to the URL of the old version control server. If you migrate
many branches, a text file in each should explain how the Git branches
were migrated from the old system.

Adding breadcrumbs is especially helpful for developers who start
working on a project long after it’s been converted to Git and who don’t
have familiarity with the old version control system.

### Binary files and tools

Due to the way Git stores history, you should avoid adding binary files
to a repository, especially binaries that are very large or that change
regularly. Git’s storage model is optimized for versioning text files
like source code, which are compact and highly compressible. Binary
files typically are neither, and once they’ve been added to a
repository, they will remain in the repository history and in every
future clone.

Migrating to Git provides an opportunity to remove these binaries from
the your codebase. We recommend removing checked-in libraries, tools and
build output from your repository and instead using a package management
system like NuGet to manage dependencies.

Assets like icons and artwork may need to align with a specific version
of your source code. Small, infrequently-changed assets like icons can
be included directly in a repository; since they do not change often,
they will not bloat the history. But large or frequently changing assets
should be stored using the Git LFS (Large File Storage) extension.

Learn more about [managing large files with
Git](/docs/git/manage-large-files).

### Training

Perhaps the biggest challenge in migrating to Git is helping developers
understand how Git stores changes and how commits form a history of
development. It’s not enough to just prepare a “cheat sheet” that maps
commands in the old system to Git commands: your developers need to stop
thinking about version control history in terms of a centralized, linear
model and need to understand Git’s history model and the commit graph.

Since people learn in different ways, plan on making several types of
training material available. Live, lab-based training with an expert
instructor works well for some people. The [Pro
Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2) book is available for free online
and is an excellent starting point. Microsoft also offers a [Git
walkthrough](/docs/git/gitquickstart) designed to rapidly get someone up
to speed.

Identify key members of the team as Git experts, empower them to help
others, and make sure that the rest of the team is encouraged to ask
them questions.

### Migrating code

Once you’ve updated your processes, analyzed your code and started
training your team, you can finally do a migration of the source code.
Whether you do a tip migration or are trying to migrate history, we
recommend that you do one or more test migrations into a test
repository. Before you do the real migration, you’ll want to make sure:

  - All code files have migrated and there are no stray binaries in the
    repository
  - You can [push the repository successfully to Visual Studio Team
    Services](/docs/git/tutorial/pushing)
  - Users have the appropriate permissions to fetch and push
  - All branches are available
  - Builds are successful, and all your tests are passing

We recommend you do the final migration at a time when few people are
working, ideally between milestones when there is some natural
“downtime” instead of at the end of a sprint when developers are
rushing to finish work. Aim to migrate over a weekend when nobody needs
to check-in.

Plan to make a firm cutover from your old version control system to Git;
trying to keep multiple systems operating in parallel is confusing since
developers may not know how, or where, to check-in and there is no
“single source of truth”. Set the old version control system read-only
to avoid this, otherwise you may have to try to do a *second* migration
to include any changes that were made in the old system during the
migration.

The actual process you take will vary based on the system you’re
migrating from. We have a detailed article about [migrating from Team
Foundation Version
Control](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/migrate-from-tfvc-to-git/),
and guidance for [migrating from other
systems](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/migrate-other-systems-to-git/)
as well.

### Migration checklist

Area













Task

Team workflows

Determine how builds will run

Determine when tests will run

Develop a release management process

Move your code reviews to pull requests

Branching strategy

Pick a Git branching strategy

Document the branching strategy, including why it was selected and how
legacy branches map

History

Decide how long to keep legacy VC running

Identify branches which need to migrate

If needed, create “breadcrumbs” to help engineers navigate back to the
legacy system

Binaries and tools

Identify which binaries and undiffable files to remove from the repo

Decide on an approach for large files, such as Git-LFS

Decide on an approach for delivering tools and libraries, such as NuGet

Training

Identify training materials

Plan training: events, written material, videos, etc.

Identify members of the team to serve as local Git experts

Code migration

Run multiple test runs to ensure the migration will go smoothly

Identify and communicate a time to make the cutover

Create the new Git repo on VSTS

Migrate the mainline branch first, followed by any additional branches
needed

Learn more about migrating to [Team Services from Team Foundation
Server](/articles/adopting-vsts) and get an overview of [how your TFVC
commands and workflow map to
Git](/articles/mapping-my-tfvc-actions-to-git).

![](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/LearnGIT_32x.png) Get
started with unlimited free private Git repos in [Visual Studio Team
Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/git/).

  [Matt
Cooper](https://www.visualstudio.com/author/mattc/ "Posts by Matt Cooper")
  
2017-05-03T03:09:57+00:00








![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/430135977e33df497a125eef52420daf?s=130&d=mm&r=g)





### Matt Cooper

I'm currently a program manager for Visual Studio Team Services, focused
on version control. Previously I've worked on package management, Xbox,
and Dynamics CRM.











  - [Back to Learn
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn-git/ "Learn Git")
  - [What is version
    control?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-version-control/)
  - [What is
    Git?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-git/)
  - [Install and set up
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/install-and-set-up-git/)
  - [Set up a
    repository](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/set-up-a-git-repository/)
  - [Save and share code with
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/git-share-code/)
  - [Understand Git
    history](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/understand-git-history/)
  - [Get feedback with pull
    requests](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/git-pull-requests/)
  - [Learn Git with Team
    Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/learn-git-with-team-services/)
  - [Plan your migration to
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/centralized-to-git/)
  - [Migrate from TFVC to
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/migrate-from-tfvc-to-git/)













  - [** DevOps at Microsoft](/learn/devops-at-microsoft/)
  - [** Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/devops/)
  - [** Learn DevOps](/learn/what-is-devops/)
  - [![](/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/git-footer-icons-dark_2.png) Learn
    Git](/learn-git/)
  - [** Learn Agile](/agile/)
  - [** DevOps Self-Assessment](https://devopsassessment.net/)













[Visual Studio Team Services](/team-services/) provides the tools you
need to continuously deliver
value





















#### What's new

  - [Surface
    Book 2](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/devices/surface-book-2/overview)
  - [Surface
    Pro](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/devices/surface-pro/overview)
  - [Xbox One X](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/xbox-one-x)
  - [Xbox One S](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/xbox-one-s?xr=shellnav)
  - [VR & mixed
    reality](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/virtualreality)
  - [Windows 10
    apps](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/windows-10-apps)
  - [Office
apps](https://store.office.com/en-us/appshome.aspx?)





#### Store & Support

  - [Account profile](https://account.microsoft.com/)
  - [Download Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download)
  - [Sales &
    support](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=824761&clcid=0x409)
  - [Returns](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=824764&clcid=0x409)
  - [Order tracking](https://account.microsoft.com/orders)
  - [Store
    locations](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/locations/find-a-store)
  - [Support](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Buy online, pick up in
    store](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/buy-online-pick-up-in-store?icid=uhf_footer_bopuis)





#### Education

  - [Microsoft in education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education)
  - [Office for
    students](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education/products/office/default.aspx)
  - [Office 365 for
    schools](https://products.office.com/en-us/academic/compare-office-365-education-plans)
  - [Deals for students &
    educators](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/student)
  - [Microsoft Azure in
    education](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/community/education/)









#### Enterprise

  - [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/)
  - [Enterprise](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/)
  - [Data platform](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server/)
  - [Find a solutions
    provider](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/solution-providers)
  - [Microsoft partner resources](https://partner.microsoft.com/en-us/)
  - [Microsoft
    AppSource](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=808093)
  - [Manufacturing &
    resources](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/discrete-manufacturing/)
  - [Financial
services](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us)





#### Developer

  - [Microsoft Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/)
  - [Windows Dev Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
  - [Developer Network](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Microsoft Virtual Academy](https://mva.microsoft.com/)
  - [Microsoft developer
    program](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/store/register)
  - [Channel 9](https://channel9.msdn.com/)
  - [Office Dev
Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/office)





#### Company

  - [Careers](https://careers.microsoft.com/)
  - [About Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/about)
  - [Company news](https://news.microsoft.com/)
  - [Privacy at Microsoft](https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Investors](https://www.microsoft.com/investor/default.aspx)
  - [Diversity and
    inclusion](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/diversity/)
  - [Accessibility](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/accessibility/home)
  - [Security](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/default.aspx)







[English (United States)](#)

  - [Contact us](https://beta.visualstudio.com/support/)
  - [Privacy &
    cookies](https://www.microsoft.com/EN-US/privacystatement/OnlineServices/Default.aspx)
  - [Terms of use](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/support/legal/)
  - [Trademarks](https://www.microsoft.com/trademarks)
  - [About our ads](http://choice.microsoft.com/)
  - © Microsoft 2018












