

[![feedback](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/feedback-button-normal.svg)](#)













[![](https://img-prod-cms-rt-microsoft-com.akamaized.net/cms/api/am/imageFileData/RE1Mu3b?ver=5c31)
Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com)



Visual
Studio



  - [Microsoft 365](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365)

  - [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com)

  - [Office 365](https://products.office.com/en-us/business/office)

  - [Dynamics 365](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/en-us/)

  - [SQL](https://www.microsoft.com/sql-server/)

  - [Windows 10](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windowsforbusiness)

  - 
    
    
    
    More
    
      - Products & Services
          - [Windows
            Server](https://www.microsoft.com/cloud-platform/windows-server)
          - [Enterprise Mobility +
            Security](https://www.microsoft.com/cloud-platform/enterprise-mobility-security)
          - [Power
            BI](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/)
          - [Teams](https://products.office.com/en-us/microsoft-teams/group-chat-software)
          - [Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/)
          - [Surface for
            Business](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/business/overview)
      - Emerging Technologies
          - [AI](https://www.microsoft.com/ai/)
          - [Internet of
            Things](https://www.microsoft.com/internet-of-things)
          - [Azure Cognitive
            Services](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/)
          - [Quantum](https://www.microsoft.com/quantum/)
          - [Research](https://www.microsoft.com/research/)
      - Developer & IT
          - [Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/)
          - [TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/ms376608.aspx)
          - [Developer Network](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us)
          - [Windows Dev
            Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
          - [Windows IT Pro
            Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/itpro/windows)
          - [FastTrack](https://fasttrack.microsoft.com/office)
      - Partner
          - [Partner Network](https://partner.microsoft.com/)
          - [Solution
            Providers](https://www.microsoft.com/solution-providers/)
          - [Partner
            Center](https://partnercenter.microsoft.com/partner/home)
          - [Cloud
            Hosting](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/cloudandhosting)
      - Industries
          - [Education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education)
          - [Financial
            services](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us)
          - [Government](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/government/)
          - [Health](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/health/)
          - [Manufacturing &
            resources](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/discrete-manufacturing/)
          - [Retail](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/retail-and-consumer-goods/)
      - Other
          - [Security](https://www.microsoft.com/security/)
          - [Licensing](https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/)
          - [AppSource](https://appsource.microsoft.com/)
          - [Azure
            Marketplace](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/marketplace/)
          - [Events](https://events.microsoft.com/)
      - [View
all](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sitemap.aspx)
    
    













Sign
in

















[Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/) [Free
Account](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=307137&clcid=0x409&wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu&campaign=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu)

[Visual Studio Team
Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/)



Features

  - [Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/git/)
  - [TFVC](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfvc/)
  - [Agile
    Tools](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/agile-tools/)
  - [CI/CD](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/continuous-integration/)
  - [All Features](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/features/)





Pricing

  - [VSTS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/pricing/)
  - [TFS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfs-pricing/)
  - [Feature
    Comparisons](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/compare-features/)





News

  - [Release
    Notes](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/release-notes/)
  - [Microsoft DevOps Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/devops/)
  - [VSTS Customer
    Stories](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/case-studies/)





Support

  - [VSTS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/support/)
  - [Team Foundation
    Server](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfs_support/)
  - [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/vsts/index)
  - [FAQ](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/faq/)



[Subscriber
Access](https://my.visualstudio.com/Benefits?wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~nav&campaign=o~msft~vscom~nav)
[Free
Account](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=307137&clcid=0x409&wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu&campaign=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu)

































[Home](https://www.visualstudio.com)/Evolving
Test Practices at
Microsoft



















# Evolving Test Practices at Microsoft

### By Munil Shah



#### About the author





[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.visualstudio.com%2Flearn%2Fevolving-test-practices-microsoft%2F&t=Evolving%20Test%20Practices%20at%20Microsoft "Facebook")[Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Evolving%20Test%20Practices%20at%20Microsoft&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.visualstudio.com%2Flearn%2Fevolving-test-practices-microsoft%2F "Twitter")[Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/evolving-test-practices-microsoft/&title=Evolving%20Test%20Practices%20at%20Microsoft&summary=Testing%20at%20Microsoft%20circa%201990s%0D%0AFor%20a%20long%20period%20of%20time%20Microsoft%20shipped%20software%20with%20a%20basic%20setup%20for%20the%20engineering%20team.%20Every%20product%20team%20had%20three%20distinct%20disciplines.%20PMs%20owned%20understanding%20customer%20requirements%20and%20writing%20feature%20specs%2C%20 "Linkedin")[Email](mailto:?subject=Evolving%20Test%20Practices%20at%20Microsoft&body=https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/evolving-test-practices-microsoft/ "Email")



















## Testing at Microsoft circa 1990s

For a long period of time Microsoft shipped software with a basic setup
for the engineering team. Every product team had three distinct
disciplines. *PMs* owned understanding customer requirements and writing
feature specs, *Devs* owned designing and coding the features. *Testers*
owned testing the features. Teams had a ratio of 1 dev to 1 test to 0.5
PM, with some variance among
teams.













The test discipline had two separate roles: Software Design Engineer
Test (SDETs) who developed the automation, the test infrastructure etc.,
and then Software Test Engineer (STEs) who ran the automation or who ran
manual tests. We hired SDETs from the same places we hired SDEs. They
had very similar qualifications and skills when they got hired. They
went to the same colleges. If we hired from industry, we’d pretty much
hire developers and then convert them into SDETs.

### How Did It Work in Practice?

It worked reasonably well back in the days. We achieved commercial
success with big products like Windows and Office. The test discipline
provided product signoff based on very formal quality measurements. That
gave us good confidence in declaring a product ready to release. The
test discipline built deep expertise in testing techniques and tooling.
One of the benefits of this model was that when we were ready to do a
product sign-off, we’d have the test discipline bring a very formal
sign-off criteria and formal measurements in quality. They also
developed deep expertise in testing because the test discipline was
solely focused on testing, thinking about this day-in day-out.

### What Didn’t Work

Did it really work though? In a single word – NO. We started seeing some
problems but were somewhat masked by the commercial success of the
products. By late 90s the problems boiled over. Developers threw the
code over the wall to SDETs. SDETs threw the test automation over the
wall to STEs. We responded by continuously growing the STEs,
particularly the vendors. STEs had limited career opportunities to
advance within the test discipline. It was very expensive to maintain
this setup. Testing became a bottleneck and caused product delays, but
again we couldn’t see through it.

### First Transformation, circa 2000: Collapsing SDET and STE

By 2000, the whole company recognized this problem. We did our first
major transformation in the test discipline. A companywide decision was
made to get rid of the STE roles and make SDETs accountable for not only
developing tests but also running and maintaining automation. It was a
painful transition for the company. We worked hard to move STEs to other
roles, and some did, but a good number of them didn’t.

This improved the model. It improved accountability and incentive on
SDETs to write better and more automation. But the core problem
remained. The SDETs couldn’t keep up with the code thrown over the wall.
We compensated by extending the validation phases in the release cycle.

Another response to this continued problem was introduction of a notion
called MQ (Quality Milestone). It was a special phase added at the
beginning of a new release cycle to catch up on all the test debt
accrued in the last release. This idea had good intention, but it didn’t
work in practice for a couple of reasons. It created a known period of
time to work on quality that would cause people to defer test debt.
Since there was a milestone dedicated to quality, it would unleash the
team to work on random quality initiatives. MQ often created priority
inversions. It took fixed number of people to work on quality, sometimes
without good sense of priority or wrong people working on things that in
the grand scheme of things were just low priority.

### Enter Cloud Cadence

Things changed dramatically with the arrival of the cloud cadence around
mid-2000s. It brought new pressure on the engineering system to go
faster and even more faster. Long stabilization phases are gone. We
don’t get customer validations through Beta milestones or dogfooding
(deploying code internally inside Microsoft). Microservices are deployed
independently and constantly. The services need to stay up with high
availability and must support no-downtime deployments.

Our initial response to these new challenges was to keep doing what we
knew how to do, but do it faster. There was a big push to make existing
test automation run faster and smarter by running only tests impacted by
the changes.

This initial approach didn’t work. Testing became a major bottleneck –
we reached a breaking point. In theory we were operating in cloud
cadence but the trains didn’t run on time. In VSTS, at times we would
spend 3 weeks after the end of sprint to stabilize and deploy –
effectively killing the next sprint.

### Quality in the Cloud Cadence – What Changed?

It became very apparent the model wasn’t working; we were doing it
wrong. We were not the first team to recognize the problem. There were
services before us, like Bing, that saw this. And we started observing
the best practices of some of the companies born in the cloud  
How our approach to Quality changed in the Cloud cadence? We did three
big things.

1.  We redefined quality ownership, we fixed the accountability.
2.  We understood that in order to ship frequently, Master branch must
    always remain as healthy as the release branch. We defined a core
    principle – Master is always shippable. The principle touches
    everything – source code management, code practices, build etc. From
    testing perspective, we pushed two things: shift-left testing (i.e.
    greater emphasis on unit testing) and [eliminating flaky
    tests](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/eliminating-flaky-tests/).
3.  We also understood there is no place like production. This is the
    shift-right part of the strategy. This is the shift-right part of
    the strategy. it’s a set of practices about both safeguarding the
    production as well as [ensuring quality in
    production](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/shift-right-test-production/).

In other words, we pushed testing left, we pushed testing right and got
rid of most of the testing in the middle. This is a departure from the
past where most of the testing that was happening in the middle –
integration style testing in the lab. The rest of the document describes
\#1 in a little bit more detail.

### The Org Change for Quality Ownership

We did ‘combined engineering’ – a term used at Microsoft to indicate
merging of responsibilities for dev and test in a single engineering
role. It is not just an organization change where you bring the Dev and
Test teams together. It is an actual discipline merge, with single
Engineer role that has qualifications and responsibilities of the SDE
and SDET disciplines of the past.

Everyone has a new role, everyone needs to learn new skills. This is a
very important point. When we talk about combined engineering, a common
question we get is how we trained the former testers. We had to train
both ways. A former developer had to learn how to be a good tester and a
former tester had to pick up good design skills. Managers had to learn
how to manage end to end feature delivery.

In this model, there is no handoff to another person or team for
testing. Each engineer owns E2E quality of the feature they build – from
unit testing, to integration testing, to performance testing, to
deployment, to monitoring live site and so on. Partnership with other
engineers is still valued, even more so. There is now greater emphasis
on peer reviews, design reviews, code reviews, test reviews etc. But the
accountability for delivering a high quality feature is not diluted
across multiple disciplines.

This was a big cultural shift across the company. This change happened
first in one org, but then over a few years, every team across Microsoft
moved to this model. There are some variations to this model but at this
point there are no separate dev and test teams at Microsoft. They are
just engineering teams with the combined engineer roles.

#### Making the change

How did we make this transition? In short, very carefully\! We
meticulously inventoried everything the test team did and refactored how
all those activities would get done in the new world.

We were particularly concerned about the test “dark matter” – things
test team did that the developers either didn’t know exist and didn’t
know how to do.

The second thing we were very clear about was we were going to have to
change the way we test. If we continued to test the way we did before,
we would fail in this new model. This is the
[shift-left](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/shift-left-make-testing-fast-reliable/),
[shift-right](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/shift-right-test-production/)
part of the test strategy.

We gave ourselves about 12 months to go through this transition. As
mentioned earlier, both SDE and SDETs had the same basic qualification
when they were hired. However, their skills had drifted over the years
doing specialized work. The drift narrowed sprint by sprint, with each
engineer picking up the skills of the other discipline, starting with a
small feature and then growing in scope. Eventually one could not
recognize an SDET or an SDE among the Engineers. That said, some
engineers didn’t quite make the transition and had to find other roles.

### Specialization

A core principle of the Combined Engineering is elimination of tasks
passing from one team to another. Handoff introduce delays and dilutes
accountability. There are no specialized central teams that do certain
tasks. Each feature team has end to end accountability of delivering
features.

At the same time, we understood the importance of specialized skills.
Performance testing can be a specialized skill. Security testing can be
a specialized skill. How do we accomplish such specialized tasks in the
Combined Engineering model? We do this by forming virtual teams
(v-teams) with specific engineers from each feature team asked to take
on special roles in addition to the normal feature development role. In
other words, we kept the specialization needed for some tasks but
distributed that work into the feature teams from the central teams.

We created an Test Arch v-team and put some of our most senior engineers
on it. They were responsible for building the new test frameworks and
championing the changes through the org. We created another v-team with
subject matter experts in quality tenets like Security and
Accessibility. We created Performance v-team which identified common
performance bottlenecks in the product and drove changes. Another v-team
was responsible for monitored the health of the CI pipeline and droving
quick actions. Engineers in these special v-teams share expertise but
their accountability is aligned to the feature team they work in.

#### Higher Velocity

On the surface it would appear that every engineer is now doing twice or
more amount of work than before and therefore feature velocity would
slow down. But total capacity in feature teams hasn’t changed because of
merging of dev and test teams. The move to combined engineering
definitely required increased investment in training and development of
new skills for each engineer, but it was more than offset by the
efficiency gain from the reduced handoff and new testing practices. We
have seen continuous and fairly noticeable gain in feature velocity
since implementing this change.



  [Munil
Shah](https://www.visualstudio.com/author/munils/ "Posts by Munil Shah")
  
2017-11-14T14:45:21+00:00 







![Munil
Shah](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/munils_avatar_1509056114-130x130.jpg)





### Munil Shah

As Partner Director of Engineering in Microsoft's Cloud and Enterprise
division, Munil Shah leads engineering for Visual Studio Team Services
and TFS products. Munil has over 20 years of experience building large
scale software and distributed services. Prior to his current role, he
held various engineering leadership positions Bing Advertising and
Windows groups at Microsoft. He is passionate about leading engineering
teams through significant transformation to deliver successful solutions
to customers.















  - [DevOps at
    Microsoft](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/devops-at-microsoft/)
  - [How We Work with Visual Studio Team
    Services (VSTS)](#)
      - [Moving to Cloud
        Cadence](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/moving-cloud-cadence/)
      - [How We Use Git at
        Microsoft](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/use-git-microsoft/)
      - [Evolving Test Practices at
        Microsoft](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/evolving-test-practices-microsoft/)
  - [How We Architect Visual Studio Team
    Services (VSTS)](#)
      - [From Monolith to Cloud
        Service](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/monolith-cloud-service/)
      - [Achieving No Downtime Through
        Versioned Service
        Updates](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/achieving-no-downtime-versioned-service-updates/)
      - [Progressive Experimentation with
        Feature
        Flags](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/progressive-experimentation-feature-flags/)
      - [Patterns for Resiliency in the
        Cloud](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/patterns-resiliency-cloud/)
      - [Shift Left to Make Testing Fast and
        Reliable](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/shift-left-make-testing-fast-reliable/)
      - [Eliminating Flaky
        Tests](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/eliminating-flaky-tests/)
      - [Shift Right to Test in
        Production](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/shift-right-test-production/)
  - [One Engineering System at
    Microsoft](#)
      - [Moving 65,000 Microsofties to DevOps
        on the Public
        Cloud](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/moving-65000-microsofties-devops-public-cloud/)
      - [Universal Store: Journey to
        Continuous Delivery and
        DevOps](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/universal-store-journey-continuous-delivery-devops/)
  - [Microsoft Research on DevOps
    Productivity](#)
      - [Boosting your code reviews with
        useful
        comments](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/boosting-code-reviews-useful-comments/)
      - [Code reviews are not (primarily) for
        finding
        bugs](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/code-reviews-not-primarily-finding-bugs/)
      - [Code ownership and software
        quality](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/code-ownership-software-quality/)
      - [Getting the noise out of test
        runs](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/getting-noise-test-runs/)
      - [Improving software security with
        stack traces from bug
        reports](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/improving-software-security-stack-traces-bug-reports/)
      - [Is 100% code coverage worth the
        cost?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/100-code-coverage-worth-cost/)
      - [Software testing at scale to
        increase
        velocity](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/software-testing-scale-increase-velocity/)
      - [Test while building to maximize test
        effectiveness and minimize
        cost](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/test-building-maximize-test-effectiveness-minimize-cost/)
      - [Using a simple code churn metric to
        find software
        bugs](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/using-simple-code-churn-metric-find-software-bugs/)



















  - [** DevOps at Microsoft](/learn/devops-at-microsoft/)
  - [** Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/devops/)
  - [** Learn DevOps](/learn/what-is-devops/)
  - [![](/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/git-footer-icons-dark_2.png) Learn
    Git](/learn-git/)
  - [** Learn Agile](/agile/)
  - [** DevOps Self-Assessment](https://devopsassessment.net/)













[Visual Studio Team Services](/team-services/) provides the tools you
need to continuously deliver
value





















#### What's new

  - [Surface
    Book 2](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/devices/surface-book-2/overview)
  - [Surface
    Pro](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/devices/surface-pro/overview)
  - [Xbox One X](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/xbox-one-x)
  - [Xbox One S](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/xbox-one-s?xr=shellnav)
  - [VR & mixed
    reality](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/virtualreality)
  - [Windows 10
    apps](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/windows-10-apps)
  - [Office
apps](https://store.office.com/en-us/appshome.aspx?)





#### Store & Support

  - [Account profile](https://account.microsoft.com/)
  - [Download Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download)
  - [Sales &
    support](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=824761&clcid=0x409)
  - [Returns](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=824764&clcid=0x409)
  - [Order tracking](https://account.microsoft.com/orders)
  - [Store
    locations](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/locations/find-a-store)
  - [Support](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Buy online, pick up in
    store](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/buy-online-pick-up-in-store?icid=uhf_footer_bopuis)





#### Education

  - [Microsoft in education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education)
  - [Office for
    students](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education/products/office/default.aspx)
  - [Office 365 for
    schools](https://products.office.com/en-us/academic/compare-office-365-education-plans)
  - [Deals for students &
    educators](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/student)
  - [Microsoft Azure in
    education](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/community/education/)









#### Enterprise

  - [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/)
  - [Enterprise](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/)
  - [Data platform](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server/)
  - [Find a solutions
    provider](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/solution-providers)
  - [Microsoft partner resources](https://partner.microsoft.com/en-us/)
  - [Microsoft
    AppSource](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=808093)
  - [Manufacturing &
    resources](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/discrete-manufacturing/)
  - [Financial
services](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us)





#### Developer

  - [Microsoft Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/)
  - [Windows Dev Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
  - [Developer Network](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Microsoft Virtual Academy](https://mva.microsoft.com/)
  - [Microsoft developer
    program](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/store/register)
  - [Channel 9](https://channel9.msdn.com/)
  - [Office Dev
Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/office)





#### Company

  - [Careers](https://careers.microsoft.com/)
  - [About Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/about)
  - [Company news](https://news.microsoft.com/)
  - [Privacy at Microsoft](https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Investors](https://www.microsoft.com/investor/default.aspx)
  - [Diversity and
    inclusion](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/diversity/)
  - [Accessibility](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/accessibility/home)
  - [Security](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/default.aspx)







[English (United States)](#)

  - [Contact us](https://beta.visualstudio.com/support/)
  - [Privacy &
    cookies](https://www.microsoft.com/EN-US/privacystatement/OnlineServices/Default.aspx)
  - [Terms of use](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/support/legal/)
  - [Trademarks](https://www.microsoft.com/trademarks)
  - [About our ads](http://choice.microsoft.com/)
  - © Microsoft 2018












