

[![feedback](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/feedback-button-normal.svg)](#)













[![](https://img-prod-cms-rt-microsoft-com.akamaized.net/cms/api/am/imageFileData/RE1Mu3b?ver=5c31)
Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com)



Visual
Studio



  - [Microsoft 365](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365)

  - [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com)

  - [Office 365](https://products.office.com/en-us/business/office)

  - [Dynamics 365](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/en-us/)

  - [SQL](https://www.microsoft.com/sql-server/)

  - [Windows 10](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windowsforbusiness)

  - 
    
    
    
    More
    
      - Products & Services
          - [Windows
            Server](https://www.microsoft.com/cloud-platform/windows-server)
          - [Enterprise Mobility +
            Security](https://www.microsoft.com/cloud-platform/enterprise-mobility-security)
          - [Power
            BI](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/)
          - [Teams](https://products.office.com/en-us/microsoft-teams/group-chat-software)
          - [Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/)
          - [Surface for
            Business](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/business/overview)
      - Emerging Technologies
          - [AI](https://www.microsoft.com/ai/)
          - [Internet of
            Things](https://www.microsoft.com/internet-of-things)
          - [Azure Cognitive
            Services](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/)
          - [Quantum](https://www.microsoft.com/quantum/)
          - [Research](https://www.microsoft.com/research/)
      - Developer & IT
          - [Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/)
          - [TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/ms376608.aspx)
          - [Developer Network](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us)
          - [Windows Dev
            Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
          - [Windows IT Pro
            Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/itpro/windows)
          - [FastTrack](https://fasttrack.microsoft.com/office)
      - Partner
          - [Partner Network](https://partner.microsoft.com/)
          - [Solution
            Providers](https://www.microsoft.com/solution-providers/)
          - [Partner
            Center](https://partnercenter.microsoft.com/partner/home)
          - [Cloud
            Hosting](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/cloudandhosting)
      - Industries
          - [Education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education)
          - [Financial
            services](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us)
          - [Government](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/government/)
          - [Health](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/health/)
          - [Manufacturing &
            resources](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/discrete-manufacturing/)
          - [Retail](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/retail-and-consumer-goods/)
      - Other
          - [Security](https://www.microsoft.com/security/)
          - [Licensing](https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/)
          - [AppSource](https://appsource.microsoft.com/)
          - [Azure
            Marketplace](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/marketplace/)
          - [Events](https://events.microsoft.com/)
      - [View
all](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sitemap.aspx)
    
    













Sign
in

















[Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/) [Free
Account](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=307137&clcid=0x409&wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu&campaign=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu)

[Visual Studio Team
Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/)



Features

  - [Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/git/)
  - [TFVC](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfvc/)
  - [Agile
    Tools](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/agile-tools/)
  - [CI/CD](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/continuous-integration/)
  - [All Features](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/features/)





Pricing

  - [VSTS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/pricing/)
  - [TFS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfs-pricing/)
  - [Feature
    Comparisons](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/compare-features/)





News

  - [Release
    Notes](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/release-notes/)
  - [Microsoft DevOps Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/devops/)
  - [VSTS Customer
    Stories](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/case-studies/)





Support

  - [VSTS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/support/)
  - [Team Foundation
    Server](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfs_support/)
  - [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/vsts/index)
  - [FAQ](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/faq/)



[Subscriber
Access](https://my.visualstudio.com/Benefits?wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~nav&campaign=o~msft~vscom~nav)
[Free
Account](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=307137&clcid=0x409&wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu&campaign=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu)

































[Home](https://www.visualstudio.com)/Install
and set up
Git



















# Install and set up Git

### By Robert Outlaw



#### About the author





[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.visualstudio.com%2Flearn%2Finstall-and-set-up-git%2F&t=Install%20and%20set%20up%20Git "Facebook")[Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Install%20and%20set%20up%20Git&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.visualstudio.com%2Flearn%2Finstall-and-set-up-git%2F "Twitter")[Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/install-and-set-up-git/&title=Install%20and%20set%20up%20Git&summary=Install%20and%20set%20up%20Git%0D%0ABy%20Robert%20Outlaw%0D%0AGit%20isn%27t%20usually%20set%20up%20by%20default%20on%20your%20computer%2C%20so%20you%20need%20to%20install%20and%20configure%20it%20before%20you%20can%20start%20using%20it%20to%20manage%20your%20code.%20It%27s%20important%20to%20keep%20Git%20up%20to%20date%2C%20just%20like%20all%20the%20other%20softwa "Linkedin")[Email](mailto:?subject=Install%20and%20set%20up%20Git&body=https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/install-and-set-up-git/ "Email")



















# Install and set up Git

### By Robert Outlaw

Git isn’t usually set up by default on your computer, so you need to
install and configure it before you can start using it to manage your
code. It’s important to keep Git up to date, just like all the other
software on your machine. Updates protect you from security
vulnerabilities, fix bugs, and give you access to new features.

The recommended method of installing and maintaining Git is provided for
three major platforms below.

#### Windows

Download and install [Git for
Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win). Once installed, you’ll be
able to use Git from the command prompt or PowerShell. We recommend that
you stick with the defaults selected during the installation unless you
have a good reason to change them.

Git for Windows does not automatically update. Update Git for Windows by
downloading a new version of the installer, which will update Git for
Windows in place and keep all of your settings.

#### macOS

macOS 10.9 (Mavericks) or higher will install Git the first time you try
to run Git from the Terminal. This is an easy way to get Git on your
system, but you can’t control exactly how often you get updates or
security fixes for Git.

We recommend installing Git through [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) and
using the Homebrew tools to keep Git up to date. Homebrew is a great way
to install and manage open source development tools on your Mac from the
command line.

Install [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) and run the following to install an
up to date version of Git on your Mac:

    > brew install git

To update your Git install, use Homebrew’s upgrade option:

    > brew upgrade git

A graphical installer for Git on macOS is also available from the
[official Git website](https://git-scm.com/download/mac).

#### Linux

Use your Linux distribution’s package management system to install and
update Git. For example, on Ubuntu:

    > sudo apt-get install git

#### Configure Git

Set up your name and email address before starting to work with Git on
your computer. Git attaches this information to your changes and lets
others identify which changes are yours.

Run the following commands from the command prompt after installing Git
to configure this information:

    > git config --global user.name "Jamal Hartnett"

    > git config --global user.email "jamal@fabrikam.com"

Visual Studio offers a great out of the box Git experience without any
additional tooling. Learn more in our [Visual Studio Git
tutorial](https://www.visualstudio.com/en-us/docs/git/tutorial/gitworkflow).

   
![](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/LearnGIT_32x.png) Get
started with unlimited free private Git repos in [Visual Studio Team
Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/git/).



  [Robert
Outlaw](https://www.visualstudio.com/author/routlaw/ "Posts by Robert Outlaw")
  
2017-04-04T11:47:12+00:00 







![Robert
Outlaw](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/Robert-Outlaw_avatar_1479411198-130x130.jpg)





### Robert Outlaw

Robert is a content developer at Microsoft working on Visual Studio Team
Services and Team Foundation Server.















  - [Back to Learn
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn-git/ "Learn Git")
  - [What is version
    control?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-version-control/)
  - [What is
    Git?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-git/)
  - [Install and set up
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/install-and-set-up-git/)
  - [Set up a
    repository](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/set-up-a-git-repository/)
  - [Save and share code with
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/git-share-code/)
  - [Understand Git
    history](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/understand-git-history/)
  - [Get feedback with pull
    requests](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/git-pull-requests/)
  - [Learn Git with Team
    Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/learn-git-with-team-services/)
  - [Plan your migration to
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/centralized-to-git/)
  - [Migrate from TFVC to
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/migrate-from-tfvc-to-git/)



















  - [** DevOps at Microsoft](/learn/devops-at-microsoft/)
  - [** Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/devops/)
  - [** Learn DevOps](/learn/what-is-devops/)
  - [![](/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/git-footer-icons-dark_2.png) Learn
    Git](/learn-git/)
  - [** Learn Agile](/agile/)
  - [** DevOps Self-Assessment](https://devopsassessment.net/)













[Visual Studio Team Services](/team-services/) provides the tools you
need to continuously deliver
value





















#### What's new

  - [Surface
    Book 2](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/devices/surface-book-2/overview)
  - [Surface
    Pro](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/devices/surface-pro/overview)
  - [Xbox One X](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/xbox-one-x)
  - [Xbox One S](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/xbox-one-s?xr=shellnav)
  - [VR & mixed
    reality](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/virtualreality)
  - [Windows 10
    apps](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/windows-10-apps)
  - [Office
apps](https://store.office.com/en-us/appshome.aspx?)





#### Store & Support

  - [Account profile](https://account.microsoft.com/)
  - [Download Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download)
  - [Sales &
    support](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=824761&clcid=0x409)
  - [Returns](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=824764&clcid=0x409)
  - [Order tracking](https://account.microsoft.com/orders)
  - [Store
    locations](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/locations/find-a-store)
  - [Support](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Buy online, pick up in
    store](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/buy-online-pick-up-in-store?icid=uhf_footer_bopuis)





#### Education

  - [Microsoft in education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education)
  - [Office for
    students](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education/products/office/default.aspx)
  - [Office 365 for
    schools](https://products.office.com/en-us/academic/compare-office-365-education-plans)
  - [Deals for students &
    educators](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/student)
  - [Microsoft Azure in
    education](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/community/education/)









#### Enterprise

  - [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/)
  - [Enterprise](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/)
  - [Data platform](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server/)
  - [Find a solutions
    provider](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/solution-providers)
  - [Microsoft partner resources](https://partner.microsoft.com/en-us/)
  - [Microsoft
    AppSource](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=808093)
  - [Manufacturing &
    resources](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/discrete-manufacturing/)
  - [Financial
services](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us)





#### Developer

  - [Microsoft Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/)
  - [Windows Dev Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
  - [Developer Network](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Microsoft Virtual Academy](https://mva.microsoft.com/)
  - [Microsoft developer
    program](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/store/register)
  - [Channel 9](https://channel9.msdn.com/)
  - [Office Dev
Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/office)





#### Company

  - [Careers](https://careers.microsoft.com/)
  - [About Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/about)
  - [Company news](https://news.microsoft.com/)
  - [Privacy at Microsoft](https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Investors](https://www.microsoft.com/investor/default.aspx)
  - [Diversity and
    inclusion](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/diversity/)
  - [Accessibility](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/accessibility/home)
  - [Security](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/default.aspx)







[English (United States)](#)

  - [Contact us](https://beta.visualstudio.com/support/)
  - [Privacy &
    cookies](https://www.microsoft.com/EN-US/privacystatement/OnlineServices/Default.aspx)
  - [Terms of use](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/support/legal/)
  - [Trademarks](https://www.microsoft.com/trademarks)
  - [About our ads](http://choice.microsoft.com/)
  - © Microsoft 2018












