

[![feedback](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/feedback-button-normal.svg)](#)













[![](https://img-prod-cms-rt-microsoft-com.akamaized.net/cms/api/am/imageFileData/RE1Mu3b?ver=5c31)
Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com)



Visual
Studio



  - [Microsoft 365](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365)

  - [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com)

  - [Office 365](https://products.office.com/en-us/business/office)

  - [Dynamics 365](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/en-us/)

  - [SQL](https://www.microsoft.com/sql-server/)

  - [Windows 10](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windowsforbusiness)

  - 
    
    
    
    More
    
      - Products & Services
          - [Windows
            Server](https://www.microsoft.com/cloud-platform/windows-server)
          - [Enterprise Mobility +
            Security](https://www.microsoft.com/cloud-platform/enterprise-mobility-security)
          - [Power
            BI](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/)
          - [Teams](https://products.office.com/en-us/microsoft-teams/group-chat-software)
          - [Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/)
          - [Surface for
            Business](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/business/overview)
      - Emerging Technologies
          - [AI](https://www.microsoft.com/ai/)
          - [Internet of
            Things](https://www.microsoft.com/internet-of-things)
          - [Azure Cognitive
            Services](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/)
          - [Quantum](https://www.microsoft.com/quantum/)
          - [Research](https://www.microsoft.com/research/)
      - Developer & IT
          - [Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/)
          - [TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/ms376608.aspx)
          - [Developer Network](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us)
          - [Windows Dev
            Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
          - [Windows IT Pro
            Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/itpro/windows)
          - [FastTrack](https://fasttrack.microsoft.com/office)
      - Partner
          - [Partner Network](https://partner.microsoft.com/)
          - [Solution
            Providers](https://www.microsoft.com/solution-providers/)
          - [Partner
            Center](https://partnercenter.microsoft.com/partner/home)
          - [Cloud
            Hosting](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/cloudandhosting)
      - Industries
          - [Education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education)
          - [Financial
            services](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us)
          - [Government](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/government/)
          - [Health](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/health/)
          - [Manufacturing &
            resources](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/discrete-manufacturing/)
          - [Retail](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/retail-and-consumer-goods/)
      - Other
          - [Security](https://www.microsoft.com/security/)
          - [Licensing](https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/)
          - [AppSource](https://appsource.microsoft.com/)
          - [Azure
            Marketplace](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/marketplace/)
          - [Events](https://events.microsoft.com/)
      - [View
all](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sitemap.aspx)
    
    













Sign
in

















[Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/) [Free
Account](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=307137&clcid=0x409&wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu&campaign=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu)

[Visual Studio Team
Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/)



Features

  - [Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/git/)
  - [TFVC](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfvc/)
  - [Agile
    Tools](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/agile-tools/)
  - [CI/CD](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/continuous-integration/)
  - [All Features](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/features/)





Pricing

  - [VSTS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/pricing/)
  - [TFS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfs-pricing/)
  - [Feature
    Comparisons](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/compare-features/)





News

  - [Release
    Notes](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/release-notes/)
  - [Microsoft DevOps Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/devops/)
  - [VSTS Customer
    Stories](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/case-studies/)





Support

  - [VSTS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/support/)
  - [Team Foundation
    Server](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfs_support/)
  - [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/vsts/index)
  - [FAQ](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/faq/)



[Subscriber
Access](https://my.visualstudio.com/Benefits?wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~nav&campaign=o~msft~vscom~nav)
[Free
Account](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=307137&clcid=0x409&wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu&campaign=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu)

































[Home](https://www.visualstudio.com)/Migrate
from TFVC to
Git



















# Migrate from TFVC to Git

### By Edward Thomson



#### About the author





[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.visualstudio.com%2Flearn%2Fmigrate-from-tfvc-to-git%2F&t=Migrate%20from%20TFVC%20to%20Git "Facebook")[Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Migrate%20from%20TFVC%20to%20Git&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.visualstudio.com%2Flearn%2Fmigrate-from-tfvc-to-git%2F "Twitter")[Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/migrate-from-tfvc-to-git/&title=Migrate%20from%20TFVC%20to%20Git&summary=Migrate%20from%20TFVC%20to%20Git%0D%0ABy%20Edward%20Thomson%0D%0AVisual%20Studio%20Team%20Services%20provides%20a%20simple%20migration%20tool%20to%20migrate%20from%20Team%20Foundation%20Version%20Control%20to%20Git.%20If%20you%E2%80%99re%20not%20using%20TFVC%2C%20you%20can%20migrate%20from%20another%20system%20manually.%0D%0A%0D%0ABefore%20you%20try%20to%20m "Linkedin")[Email](mailto:?subject=Migrate%20from%20TFVC%20to%20Git&body=https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/migrate-from-tfvc-to-git/ "Email")



















# Migrate from TFVC to Git

### By Edward Thomson

Visual Studio Team Services provides [a simple migration
tool](/docs/git/import-from-tfvc) to migrate from Team Foundation
Version Control to Git. If you’re not using TFVC, you can [migrate from
another
system](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/migrate-other-systems-to-git/)
manually.

Before you try to migrate your source code from a centralized version
control system to Git, be sure that you familiarize yourself with the
differences between centralized and distributed version control systems,
and [plan your team’s
migration](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/centralized-to-git/).
After you’ve prepared, you can begin the migration.

#### Requirements

In order to make migrations simple, there are a number of requirements
on the [TFVC Import tool](/docs/git/import-from-tfvc):

1.  Only a single branch is migrated. When [planning your
    migration](centralized-to-git) you should choose a new branching
    strategy for Git; migrating only the main branch supports a
    topic-branch based workflow like
    [GitFlow](http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/)
    or [GitHub
    Flow](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/index.html).
2.  A “tip migration”, importing only the latest version of the source
    code, is suggested. You can opt to migrate some history, up to 180
    days, so that your team doesn’t need to refer back to TFVC as often,
    but [this is discouraged](centralized-to-git) unless your history is
    very simple.
3.  You do not have binary assets like images, scientific data sets, or
    game models in your repository. These assets should use the Git LFS
    (Large File Support) extension, which the import tool does not
    configure.
4.  The imported repository cannot exceed 1GB in size.

If you do not meet these requirements, you can use the Git-TFS tool to
perform the migration, or perform a [manual
migration](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/migrate-other-systems-to-git/).

In general, the process to migrate from TFVC is very easy:

#### Steps to migrate

1.  Check out the latest version of your branch from TFVC onto your
    local disk.
2.  Remove binaries and build tools from your repository and set up a
    package management system like NuGet.
3.  Convert version control system-specific directives that you need to
    retain in Git. For example, convert `.tfignore` files to
    [`.gitignore`](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore), and convert
    `.tpattributes` files to
    [`.gitattributes`](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitattributes).
4.  Check in the final changes to Team Foundation Version Control and
    perform the migration to Git.

Steps 1-3 are optional; if you do not have any binaries in your
repository and you do not need to set up a `.gitignore` or a
`.gitattributes`, then you can skip straight to [performing the
migration](/docs/git/import-from-tfvc).

### Check out the latest version

Create a new TFS workspace, and map a working folder for the server
directory that you’re going to migrate to Git. You do not need to do a
full working folder mapping; you only need to map folders that contain
binaries that you’re going to remove from the repository and folders
that contain version control system-specific configuration files like
`.tfignore`.

Once you have set up your mappings, get the folder locally:

``` prettyprint
tf get /version:T /recursive
```

### Remove binaries and build tools

Due to the way Git stores the history of changed files, providing a copy
of every file in history to every developer, checking in binary files
directly to the repository will cause it to grow quickly and cause
performance issues.

For build tools and dependencies like libraries, adopt a [packaging
solution](/docs/package/overview) with versioning support, such as
NuGet. Many open source tools and libraries will already be available on
the [NuGet Gallery](http://www.nuget.org/), but for proprietary
dependencies, you will need to create your own NuGet packages.

Once you have moved your dependencies into NuGet, make sure that they
will not be included in your Git repository by adding them to your
[`.gitignore`](/docs/git/tutorial/ignore-files) file.

### Convert version control-specific configuration

Team Foundation Version Control provides a `.tfignore` file that will
ensure that certain files are not added to your TFVC repository. This
can be used for automatically generated files like build output, so that
it is not accidentally checked in.

If you rely on this behavior, convert your `.tfignore` file to a
[`.gitignore`](/docs/git/tutorial/ignore-files) file.

Cross-platform TFVC clients also provide support for a `.tpattributes`
file that controls how files are placed on the local disk or checked in
to the repository. If you use a `.tpattributes` file, convert it to a
[`.gitattributes`](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitattributes) file.

### Check in to TFVC and perform the migration

Check in any changes you made that remove binaries, migrate to package
management, or convert version control-specific configuration. Once this
final change is made in TFVC, you can perform the import.

Follow the [Import repositories](/docs/git/import-from-tfvc)
documentation to actually perform the input.

### Advanced migrations

The [Git-TFS tool](https://github.com/git-tfs/git-tfs) is a two-way
bridge between Team Foundation Version Control and Git, and can be used
to perform a migration. Git-TFS is appropriate if you want to attempt a
migration with full history, more than the 180 days that the Import tool
supports, or if you want to attempt a migration that includes multiple
branches and merge relationships.

Before you attempt a migration with Git-TFS, you should be aware that
there are fundamental differences between the way TFVC and Git store
history:

  - Git stores history as a snapshot of the repository in time, while
    TFVC records the discrete operations that occurred on a file. Change
    types in TFVC like rename, undelete and rollback cannot be expressed
    in Git; instead of seeing that file `A` was renamed to file `B`, you
    may only see that file `A` was deleted and file `B` was added in the
    same commit.
  - Git does not have a direct analog of a TFVC label: labels can
    contain any number of files at any specific version and can reflect
    files at different versions. Although conceptually similar, Git tags
    point to a snapshot of the whole repository at a point in time. If
    you rely on TFVC labels to know what was delivered, Git tags may not
    be provide this information.
  - Merges in TFVC occur at the file level, not at the entire
    repository. You can merge only a subset of changed files from one
    branch to another, then merge the remaining changed files in a
    subsequent changeset. In Git, a merge affects the entire repository,
    and you cannot see both sets of individual changes as a merge.

Because of these differences, we generally advise users to do a tip
migration and keep their TFVC repository online but read-only to view
history.

If you want to attempt an advanced migration with Git-TFS, that project
provides documentation on how to do a migration from TFVC to Git,
[cloning a single branch with
history](https://github.com/git-tfs/git-tfs/blob/master/doc/usecases/manage_tfs_branches.md#clone-all-history)
or [cloning all branches with merge
history](https://github.com/git-tfs/git-tfs/blob/master/doc/usecases/manage_tfs_branches.md#clone-all-history).

### Update your workflow

Moving from a centralized version control system to Git is more than
just migrating code. Your team needs training to understand how Git is
different from your existing version control system and how these
differences affect day-to-day work. [Learn
more](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/centralized-to-git/).

![](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/LearnGIT_32x.png) Get
started with unlimited free private Git repos in [Visual Studio Team
Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/git/).



  [Edward
Thomson](https://www.visualstudio.com/author/ethomson/ "Posts by Edward Thomson")
  
2017-05-30T06:46:23+00:00








![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/1bd10d2eb4ea34a361c566f8ca396202?s=130&d=mm&r=g)





### Edward Thomson

Edward is a Program Manager for Visual Studio Team Services, focusing on
Git and Version Control. He is the author of “Git for Visual Studio”
training from O’Reilly Media and a contributor to “Professional Team
Foundation Server 2013”.















  - [Back to Learn
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn-git/ "Learn Git")
  - [What is version
    control?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-version-control/)
  - [What is
    Git?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-git/)
  - [Install and set up
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/install-and-set-up-git/)
  - [Set up a
    repository](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/set-up-a-git-repository/)
  - [Save and share code with
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/git-share-code/)
  - [Understand Git
    history](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/understand-git-history/)
  - [Get feedback with pull
    requests](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/git-pull-requests/)
  - [Learn Git with Team
    Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/learn-git-with-team-services/)
  - [Plan your migration to
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/centralized-to-git/)
  - [Migrate from TFVC to
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/migrate-from-tfvc-to-git/)



















  - [** DevOps at Microsoft](/learn/devops-at-microsoft/)
  - [** Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/devops/)
  - [** Learn DevOps](/learn/what-is-devops/)
  - [![](/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/git-footer-icons-dark_2.png) Learn
    Git](/learn-git/)
  - [** Learn Agile](/agile/)
  - [** DevOps Self-Assessment](https://devopsassessment.net/)













[Visual Studio Team Services](/team-services/) provides the tools you
need to continuously deliver
value





















#### What's new

  - [Surface
    Book 2](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/devices/surface-book-2/overview)
  - [Surface
    Pro](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/devices/surface-pro/overview)
  - [Xbox One X](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/xbox-one-x)
  - [Xbox One S](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/xbox-one-s?xr=shellnav)
  - [VR & mixed
    reality](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/virtualreality)
  - [Windows 10
    apps](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/windows-10-apps)
  - [Office
apps](https://store.office.com/en-us/appshome.aspx?)





#### Store & Support

  - [Account profile](https://account.microsoft.com/)
  - [Download Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download)
  - [Sales &
    support](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=824761&clcid=0x409)
  - [Returns](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=824764&clcid=0x409)
  - [Order tracking](https://account.microsoft.com/orders)
  - [Store
    locations](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/locations/find-a-store)
  - [Support](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Buy online, pick up in
    store](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/buy-online-pick-up-in-store?icid=uhf_footer_bopuis)





#### Education

  - [Microsoft in education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education)
  - [Office for
    students](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education/products/office/default.aspx)
  - [Office 365 for
    schools](https://products.office.com/en-us/academic/compare-office-365-education-plans)
  - [Deals for students &
    educators](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/student)
  - [Microsoft Azure in
    education](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/community/education/)









#### Enterprise

  - [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/)
  - [Enterprise](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/)
  - [Data platform](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server/)
  - [Find a solutions
    provider](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/solution-providers)
  - [Microsoft partner resources](https://partner.microsoft.com/en-us/)
  - [Microsoft
    AppSource](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=808093)
  - [Manufacturing &
    resources](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/discrete-manufacturing/)
  - [Financial
services](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us)





#### Developer

  - [Microsoft Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/)
  - [Windows Dev Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
  - [Developer Network](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Microsoft Virtual Academy](https://mva.microsoft.com/)
  - [Microsoft developer
    program](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/store/register)
  - [Channel 9](https://channel9.msdn.com/)
  - [Office Dev
Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/office)





#### Company

  - [Careers](https://careers.microsoft.com/)
  - [About Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/about)
  - [Company news](https://news.microsoft.com/)
  - [Privacy at Microsoft](https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Investors](https://www.microsoft.com/investor/default.aspx)
  - [Diversity and
    inclusion](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/diversity/)
  - [Accessibility](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/accessibility/home)
  - [Security](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/default.aspx)







[English (United States)](#)

  - [Contact us](https://beta.visualstudio.com/support/)
  - [Privacy &
    cookies](https://www.microsoft.com/EN-US/privacystatement/OnlineServices/Default.aspx)
  - [Terms of use](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/support/legal/)
  - [Trademarks](https://www.microsoft.com/trademarks)
  - [About our ads](http://choice.microsoft.com/)
  - © Microsoft 2018












