

[![feedback](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/feedback-button-normal.svg)](#)













[![](https://img-prod-cms-rt-microsoft-com.akamaized.net/cms/api/am/imageFileData/RE1Mu3b?ver=5c31)
Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com)



Visual
Studio



  - [Microsoft 365](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365)

  - [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com)

  - [Office 365](https://products.office.com/en-us/business/office)

  - [Dynamics 365](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/en-us/)

  - [SQL](https://www.microsoft.com/sql-server/)

  - [Windows 10](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windowsforbusiness)

  - 
    
    
    
    More
    
      - Products & Services
          - [Windows
            Server](https://www.microsoft.com/cloud-platform/windows-server)
          - [Enterprise Mobility +
            Security](https://www.microsoft.com/cloud-platform/enterprise-mobility-security)
          - [Power
            BI](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/)
          - [Teams](https://products.office.com/en-us/microsoft-teams/group-chat-software)
          - [Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/)
          - [Surface for
            Business](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/business/overview)
      - Emerging Technologies
          - [AI](https://www.microsoft.com/ai/)
          - [Internet of
            Things](https://www.microsoft.com/internet-of-things)
          - [Azure Cognitive
            Services](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/)
          - [Quantum](https://www.microsoft.com/quantum/)
          - [Research](https://www.microsoft.com/research/)
      - Developer & IT
          - [Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/)
          - [TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/ms376608.aspx)
          - [Developer Network](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us)
          - [Windows Dev
            Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
          - [Windows IT Pro
            Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/itpro/windows)
          - [FastTrack](https://fasttrack.microsoft.com/office)
      - Partner
          - [Partner Network](https://partner.microsoft.com/)
          - [Solution
            Providers](https://www.microsoft.com/solution-providers/)
          - [Partner
            Center](https://partnercenter.microsoft.com/partner/home)
          - [Cloud
            Hosting](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/cloudandhosting)
      - Industries
          - [Education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education)
          - [Financial
            services](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us)
          - [Government](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/government/)
          - [Health](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/health/)
          - [Manufacturing &
            resources](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/discrete-manufacturing/)
          - [Retail](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/retail-and-consumer-goods/)
      - Other
          - [Security](https://www.microsoft.com/security/)
          - [Licensing](https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/)
          - [AppSource](https://appsource.microsoft.com/)
          - [Azure
            Marketplace](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/marketplace/)
          - [Events](https://events.microsoft.com/)
      - [View
all](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sitemap.aspx)
    
    













Sign
in

















[Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/) [Free
Account](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=307137&clcid=0x409&wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu&campaign=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu)

[Visual Studio Team
Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/)



Features

  - [Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/git/)
  - [TFVC](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfvc/)
  - [Agile
    Tools](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/agile-tools/)
  - [CI/CD](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/continuous-integration/)
  - [All Features](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/features/)





Pricing

  - [VSTS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/pricing/)
  - [TFS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfs-pricing/)
  - [Feature
    Comparisons](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/compare-features/)





News

  - [Release
    Notes](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/release-notes/)
  - [Microsoft DevOps Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/devops/)
  - [VSTS Customer
    Stories](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/case-studies/)





Support

  - [VSTS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/support/)
  - [Team Foundation
    Server](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfs_support/)
  - [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/vsts/index)
  - [FAQ](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/faq/)



[Subscriber
Access](https://my.visualstudio.com/Benefits?wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~nav&campaign=o~msft~vscom~nav)
[Free
Account](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=307137&clcid=0x409&wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu&campaign=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu)

































[Home](https://www.visualstudio.com)/Creating
Productive
Teams



















# Creating Productive Teams

### By Matthew Manela



#### About the author





[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.visualstudio.com%2Flearn%2Fproductive-teams%2F&t=Creating%20Productive%20Teams "Facebook")[Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Creating%20Productive%20Teams&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.visualstudio.com%2Flearn%2Fproductive-teams%2F "Twitter")[Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/productive-teams/&title=Creating%20Productive%20Teams&summary=Building%20productive%2C%20customer%20focused%20teams%0D%0ABy%20Matthew%20Manela%0D%0A%0D%0A%0D%0AEngineers%20thrive%20in%20environments%20where%20they%20can%20focus%20and%20%E2%80%9Cget%20in%20the%20zone%E2%80%9D.%20Teams%20often%20face%20many%20distractions%20and%20competing%20priorities%20that%20force%20engineers%20to%20shift%20context%20and%20divide%20th "Linkedin")[Email](mailto:?subject=Creating%20Productive%20Teams&body=https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/productive-teams/ "Email")



















# Building productive, customer focused teams

### By Matthew Manela

Engineers thrive in environments where they can focus and “get in the
zone”. Teams often face many distractions and competing priorities that
force engineers to shift context and divide their attention. They
struggle to balance “heads down” time with “heads up” time. Adding new
features requires team members to be heads down and focused. Responding
to customer issues and addressing live site issues requires the team to
be heads up and aware of what’s going on.

To mitigate distractions, a team can divide itself into two “crews”: one
focused on feature work (design, code, review, test and documentation)
and another focused on live site health (bug fixes, telemetry, live-site
issues, and responding directly with
customers).

![](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/AgileCrews1.png)

The two-crew approach yields greater productivity and predictability.
Successful implementation relies on these key elements:

  - Clearly defined crew roles
  - A well-defined crew rotation process
  - Frequent adjustments to crew size

## Feature crew

The feature crew (F-crew) focuses on the **future**. They work as an
effective unit with a clear mission and goal: build and ship high
quality features.

To ensure they have the time to design, build, and test their work, they
are shielded from the day-to-day chaos of the live service. As part of
the F-crew, they can rely on minimal distractions and freedom from
having to fix issues that arise at random. They’re encouraged to seldom
check their email and avoid getting pulled into other issues unless
they’re absolutely critical.

When an F-crew member joins a conversation or occasionally gets sucked
into an email thread, other team members should chide them: “You are on
the F-crew, what are you doing?” If it is absolutely necessary for an
F-crew member to address a critical issue, they are encouraged to
delegate to the customer crew and return to feature work.

The F-crew operates as a tight-knit team that swarms on a small set of
features. A good WIP limit is 2-features in flight for 4-6 people. By
working closely together they build deep shared context and find
critical bugs or design issues that a cursory code review would miss.

This type of dedicated crew allows for a more predictable throughput
rate and lead time. Team members often refer to the F-crew as serene and
focused. They find it peaceful and rejuvenating to focus deeply on a
feature, to dedicate full attention to it. People leave their time on
the F-crew feeling refreshed and accomplished.

## Customer crew

The customer crew (C-crew) focuses on the **now**, providing frontline
support for customer and live-site issues, bugs, telemetry, and
monitoring. The C-crew often huddles around a computer, debugging a
critical live-site issue. Their number one priority is live-site health.
Laser-focused on this environment, they build expert debugging and
analysis skills. The customer crew is often referred to as the shield
team, because it “shields” the rest of the team from distractions.

Rather than working on upcoming features, the C-crew is the bridge
between customers and the current product. They are active on email,
twitter, and other feedback channels. Customers want to know they are
heard, and the C-crew’s job is to hear them. The C-crew triages customer
reported issues immediately and quickly engages and assists blocked
customers.

With a deluge of incoming tasks, working on a fast-paced C-crew can, at
times, be exhilarating. In a busy week, they address multiple emails,
live-site investigations, and bugs. As operations quiet down, they work
to improve telemetry and reporting, investing their time to make service
upkeep easier.

C-crews allow the team to address issues without pulling team members
off other priorities, and ensure customers and partners are heard.
Responsiveness to questions and issues becomes a point of pride for
C-crews. However, this pace can be draining, necessitating a frequent
rotation between crews.

## Crew rotation

A well-defined rotation process makes the two-crew system work. You
could simply swap the crews (F-crew becomes C-crew and vice versa), but
this limits knowledge sharing between and within the crews. Instead, opt
for a weekly rotation.

At the end of each week conduct a short “Swap Meet”, where the team
decides who swaps between crews. You can use a simple whiteboard chart
to track who is currently on each crew and when they were swapped.

The longest tenured people on each crew should typically swap with each
other. However, in any given week, someone may want to remain to
complete work on a live-site investigation or feature. While there is
flexibility, the longer someone is on a crew, the more likely they
should be swapped.

Weekly rotations help prevent silos of knowledge in the team and ensure
a constant flow of information and perspective between crews. The
frequent movement of engineers creates shared knowledge of the team’s
work, which helps the C-crew to resolve issues without the help of
others. Often times, new F-crew members will quickly find a previously
overlooked design or code flaw.

## Crew size

Crew size varies to maintain the health of the team. If a team has a
high incoming rate of live-site issues or has a lot of technical debt,
the C-crew gets larger, and vice versa. Adjusting sizes weekly increases
predictability in the team’s deliverables and dependencies. Some weeks a
team may move everyone to the C-crew to address the feedback from a big
release.

This strategy simplifies communication with management. Without a two
crew-system, engineers often work on multiple things simultaneously.
When several distractions occur in a single week, in-progress features
are often delayed. As a result, a team may be unable to confidently give
timelines for future feature work.

A dedicated F-crew leads to predictable throughput and lead time.
Splitting resources between crews increases accountability within the
team and with management about what the team can accomplish each week
and each sprint.

## Final thoughts

The two-crew system can help teams struggling to understand where
engineers should spend their time and to make progress on many competing
priorities.

However, the two-crew system not only improves productivity and
predictability, it increases team morale as well. Engineers on the team
clearly understand their roles and responsibilities and function more
independently and with much greater accountability.

This approach is ideal for DevOps teams, those responsible for both
development and operations. However, this approach can be applied to
nearly any agile team dealing with competing priorities.

Try this approach on your team for a sprint or two. Use this article as
the basis for your own approach, then learn from it and refine it to
work for your team. Then, let us know how it works. You can find us on
Twitter [@mmanela](https://twitter.com/mmanela) and
[@ewaldhofman](https://twitter.com/ewaldhofman).

   
![get started for
free](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/AgileGetStartedForFree_32x.png)
Get started with free agile tools in [Visual Studio Team
Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/agile-tools).



  [Matthew
Manela](https://www.visualstudio.com/author/mmanela/ "Posts by Matthew Manela")
  
2017-10-03T12:38:03+00:00 







![Matthew
Manela](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/Matthew-Manela_avatar_1472490234.jpg)





### Matthew Manela

I am a software engineering manager working on Agile tooling in Visual
Studio Team Services. I am passionate about building scalable high
quality services, Pair Programming, Test Driven Development and Open
Source software.















  - [Back to
    Agile](https://www.visualstudio.com/agile/ "Agile")
  - [What is
    Agile?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-agile/)
  - [What is
    Scrum?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-scrum/)
  - [What is Agile
    Development?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-agile-development/)
  - [Agile
    Culture](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/agile-culture/)
  - [Scale Agile to Large
    Teams](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/scale-agile-large-teams/)
  - [Creating Productive
    Teams](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/productive-teams/)
  - [DevOps Learning
    Guide](https://www.visualstudio.com/devops/)



















  - [** DevOps at Microsoft](/learn/devops-at-microsoft/)
  - [** Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/devops/)
  - [** Learn DevOps](/learn/what-is-devops/)
  - [![](/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/git-footer-icons-dark_2.png) Learn
    Git](/learn-git/)
  - [** Learn Agile](/agile/)
  - [** DevOps Self-Assessment](https://devopsassessment.net/)













[Visual Studio Team Services](/team-services/) provides the tools you
need to continuously deliver
value





















#### What's new

  - [Surface
    Book 2](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/devices/surface-book-2/overview)
  - [Surface
    Pro](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/devices/surface-pro/overview)
  - [Xbox One X](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/xbox-one-x)
  - [Xbox One S](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/xbox-one-s?xr=shellnav)
  - [VR & mixed
    reality](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/virtualreality)
  - [Windows 10
    apps](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/windows-10-apps)
  - [Office
apps](https://store.office.com/en-us/appshome.aspx?)





#### Store & Support

  - [Account profile](https://account.microsoft.com/)
  - [Download Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download)
  - [Sales &
    support](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=824761&clcid=0x409)
  - [Returns](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=824764&clcid=0x409)
  - [Order tracking](https://account.microsoft.com/orders)
  - [Store
    locations](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/locations/find-a-store)
  - [Support](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Buy online, pick up in
    store](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/buy-online-pick-up-in-store?icid=uhf_footer_bopuis)





#### Education

  - [Microsoft in education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education)
  - [Office for
    students](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education/products/office/default.aspx)
  - [Office 365 for
    schools](https://products.office.com/en-us/academic/compare-office-365-education-plans)
  - [Deals for students &
    educators](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/student)
  - [Microsoft Azure in
    education](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/community/education/)









#### Enterprise

  - [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/)
  - [Enterprise](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/)
  - [Data platform](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server/)
  - [Find a solutions
    provider](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/solution-providers)
  - [Microsoft partner resources](https://partner.microsoft.com/en-us/)
  - [Microsoft
    AppSource](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=808093)
  - [Manufacturing &
    resources](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/discrete-manufacturing/)
  - [Financial
services](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us)





#### Developer

  - [Microsoft Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/)
  - [Windows Dev Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
  - [Developer Network](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Microsoft Virtual Academy](https://mva.microsoft.com/)
  - [Microsoft developer
    program](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/store/register)
  - [Channel 9](https://channel9.msdn.com/)
  - [Office Dev
Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/office)





#### Company

  - [Careers](https://careers.microsoft.com/)
  - [About Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/about)
  - [Company news](https://news.microsoft.com/)
  - [Privacy at Microsoft](https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Investors](https://www.microsoft.com/investor/default.aspx)
  - [Diversity and
    inclusion](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/diversity/)
  - [Accessibility](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/accessibility/home)
  - [Security](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/default.aspx)







[English (United States)](#)

  - [Contact us](https://beta.visualstudio.com/support/)
  - [Privacy &
    cookies](https://www.microsoft.com/EN-US/privacystatement/OnlineServices/Default.aspx)
  - [Terms of use](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/support/legal/)
  - [Trademarks](https://www.microsoft.com/trademarks)
  - [About our ads](http://choice.microsoft.com/)
  - © Microsoft 2018












