

[![feedback](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/feedback-button-normal.svg)](#)













[![](https://img-prod-cms-rt-microsoft-com.akamaized.net/cms/api/am/imageFileData/RE1Mu3b?ver=5c31)
Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com)



Visual
Studio



  - [Microsoft 365](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365)

  - [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com)

  - [Office 365](https://products.office.com/en-us/business/office)

  - [Dynamics 365](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/en-us/)

  - [SQL](https://www.microsoft.com/sql-server/)

  - [Windows 10](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windowsforbusiness)

  - 
    
    
    
    More
    
      - Products & Services
          - [Windows
            Server](https://www.microsoft.com/cloud-platform/windows-server)
          - [Enterprise Mobility +
            Security](https://www.microsoft.com/cloud-platform/enterprise-mobility-security)
          - [Power
            BI](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/)
          - [Teams](https://products.office.com/en-us/microsoft-teams/group-chat-software)
          - [Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/)
          - [Surface for
            Business](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/business/overview)
      - Emerging Technologies
          - [AI](https://www.microsoft.com/ai/)
          - [Internet of
            Things](https://www.microsoft.com/internet-of-things)
          - [Azure Cognitive
            Services](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/)
          - [Quantum](https://www.microsoft.com/quantum/)
          - [Research](https://www.microsoft.com/research/)
      - Developer & IT
          - [Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/)
          - [TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/ms376608.aspx)
          - [Developer Network](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us)
          - [Windows Dev
            Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
          - [Windows IT Pro
            Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/itpro/windows)
          - [FastTrack](https://fasttrack.microsoft.com/office)
      - Partner
          - [Partner Network](https://partner.microsoft.com/)
          - [Solution
            Providers](https://www.microsoft.com/solution-providers/)
          - [Partner
            Center](https://partnercenter.microsoft.com/partner/home)
          - [Cloud
            Hosting](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/cloudandhosting)
      - Industries
          - [Education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education)
          - [Financial
            services](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us)
          - [Government](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/government/)
          - [Health](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/health/)
          - [Manufacturing &
            resources](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/discrete-manufacturing/)
          - [Retail](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/retail-and-consumer-goods/)
      - Other
          - [Security](https://www.microsoft.com/security/)
          - [Licensing](https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/)
          - [AppSource](https://appsource.microsoft.com/)
          - [Azure
            Marketplace](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/marketplace/)
          - [Events](https://events.microsoft.com/)
      - [View
all](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sitemap.aspx)
    
    













Sign
in

















[Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/) [Free
Account](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=307137&clcid=0x409&wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu&campaign=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu)

[Visual Studio Team
Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/)



Features

  - [Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/git/)
  - [TFVC](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfvc/)
  - [Agile
    Tools](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/agile-tools/)
  - [CI/CD](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/continuous-integration/)
  - [All Features](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/features/)





Pricing

  - [VSTS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/pricing/)
  - [TFS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfs-pricing/)
  - [Feature
    Comparisons](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/compare-features/)





News

  - [Release
    Notes](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/release-notes/)
  - [Microsoft DevOps Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/devops/)
  - [VSTS Customer
    Stories](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/case-studies/)





Support

  - [VSTS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/support/)
  - [Team Foundation
    Server](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfs_support/)
  - [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/vsts/index)
  - [FAQ](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/faq/)



[Subscriber
Access](https://my.visualstudio.com/Benefits?wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~nav&campaign=o~msft~vscom~nav)
[Free
Account](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=307137&clcid=0x409&wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu&campaign=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu)

































[Home](https://www.visualstudio.com)/Set
up a
repository



















# Set up a repository

### By Robert Outlaw



#### About the author





[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.visualstudio.com%2Flearn%2Fset-up-a-git-repository%2F&t=Set%20up%20a%20repository "Facebook")[Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=Set%20up%20a%20repository&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.visualstudio.com%2Flearn%2Fset-up-a-git-repository%2F "Twitter")[Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/set-up-a-git-repository/&title=Set%20up%20a%20repository&summary=Set%20up%20a%20repository%0D%0ABy%20Robert%20Outlaw%0D%0AA%20Git%20repository%2C%20or%20repo%2C%20is%20a%20folder%20that%20you%27ve%20told%20Git%20to%20help%20you%20track%C2%A0file%20changes%20in.%20You%20can%20have%20any%20number%20of%20repos%20on%20your%20computer%2C%20each%20stored%20in%20their%20own%20folder.%20Each%20Git%20repo%20on%20your%20system%20is%20indepe "Linkedin")[Email](mailto:?subject=Set%20up%20a%20repository&body=https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/set-up-a-git-repository/ "Email")



















# Set up a repository

### By Robert Outlaw

A Git repository, or repo, is a folder that you’ve told Git to help you
track file changes in. You can have any number of repos on your
computer, each stored in their own folder. Each Git repo on your system
is independent, so changes saved in one Git repo don’t affect the
contents of another.

A Git repo contains every version of every file saved in the repo. This
is different than other version control systems that store only the
differences between files. Git stores the file versions in a hidden .git
folder alongside other information it needs to manage your code. Git
saves these files very efficiently, so having a large number of versions
doesn’t mean that it uses a lot of disk space. Storing each version of
your files helps Git merge code better and makes working with multiple
versions of your code quick and easy.

You work with Git through commands issued while working in your local
repo on your computer. Even when you’re sharing code or getting updates
from your team, it’s done from commands that update your local repo.
This local-focused design is what makes Git a distributed version
control system. Every repo is self-contained, and the owner of the repo
is responsible for keeping it up to date with the changes from
others.

![git\_repositories](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/git_repositories.png)

Most teams will use a central repo hosted on a server everyone can
access to coordinate their changes.  The central repo is usually hosted
in a source control management solution, like Team Foundation Server or
Visual Studio Team Services, that adds features that make working
together easier.

### Create a new Git repo

You have two options to create a Git repo-you can create a repo from the
code in a folder on your computer, or you can clone the contents of an
existing repo. Deciding which option you need is straightforward-if
you’re working with code that’s just on your own computer, create a
local repo using the code in that folder. Most of the time you’re
working with code already shared in a Git repo, so cloning the existing
repo to your computer is the way to go.

#### From existing code

Use the `git init` command to create a new repo from an existing folder
on your computer. From the command line, navigate to the root folder
containing your code and run

    > git init

to create the repo. You’ll then need to add any files in the folder to
your first commit with the following commands:

    > git add --all

    > git commit -m "Initial commit"

#### From a remote repository

Use the `git clone` command to copy the contents of an existing repo to
a folder on your computer. From the command line, navigate to the folder
you want to contain the cloned repo, then
    run:

    > git clone https://fabrikam.visualstudio.com/DefaultCollection/Fabrikam/_git/FabrikamProject

Pass in the actual URL to the existing repo instead of the placeholder
URL above. This URL, called the clone URL, points to a server where your
team coordinates changes. You can get this URL from your team, or from
the clone button on the web where you are browsing of the repo.

You don’t need to add files or create an initial commit when you clone a
repo since you copied all of the files and history of the existing repo
during the clone.

[Visual Studio Team
Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/git/) provides
unlimited free private Git repos. [Get
started](https://www.visualstudio.com/en-us/docs/setup-admin/team-services/sign-up-for-visual-studio-team-services)
today.

Visual Studio user? Learn more about creating and cloning repos from
Visual Studio in our [Team Services Git
tutorial](https://www.visualstudio.com/en-us/docs/git/tutorial/creatingrepo).

   
![](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/LearnGIT_32x.png) Get
started with unlimited free private Git repos in [Visual Studio Team
Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/git/).



  [Robert
Outlaw](https://www.visualstudio.com/author/routlaw/ "Posts by Robert Outlaw")
  
2017-04-04T11:50:16+00:00 







![Robert
Outlaw](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/Robert-Outlaw_avatar_1479411198-130x130.jpg)





### Robert Outlaw

Robert is a content developer at Microsoft working on Visual Studio Team
Services and Team Foundation Server.















  - [Back to Learn
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn-git/ "Learn Git")
  - [What is version
    control?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-version-control/)
  - [What is
    Git?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-git/)
  - [Install and set up
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/install-and-set-up-git/)
  - [Set up a
    repository](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/set-up-a-git-repository/)
  - [Save and share code with
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/git-share-code/)
  - [Understand Git
    history](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/understand-git-history/)
  - [Get feedback with pull
    requests](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/git-pull-requests/)
  - [Learn Git with Team
    Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/learn-git-with-team-services/)
  - [Plan your migration to
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/centralized-to-git/)
  - [Migrate from TFVC to
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/migrate-from-tfvc-to-git/)



















  - [** DevOps at Microsoft](/learn/devops-at-microsoft/)
  - [** Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/devops/)
  - [** Learn DevOps](/learn/what-is-devops/)
  - [![](/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/git-footer-icons-dark_2.png) Learn
    Git](/learn-git/)
  - [** Learn Agile](/agile/)
  - [** DevOps Self-Assessment](https://devopsassessment.net/)













[Visual Studio Team Services](/team-services/) provides the tools you
need to continuously deliver
value





















#### What's new

  - [Surface
    Book 2](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/devices/surface-book-2/overview)
  - [Surface
    Pro](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/devices/surface-pro/overview)
  - [Xbox One X](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/xbox-one-x)
  - [Xbox One S](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/xbox-one-s?xr=shellnav)
  - [VR & mixed
    reality](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/virtualreality)
  - [Windows 10
    apps](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/windows-10-apps)
  - [Office
apps](https://store.office.com/en-us/appshome.aspx?)





#### Store & Support

  - [Account profile](https://account.microsoft.com/)
  - [Download Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download)
  - [Sales &
    support](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=824761&clcid=0x409)
  - [Returns](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=824764&clcid=0x409)
  - [Order tracking](https://account.microsoft.com/orders)
  - [Store
    locations](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/locations/find-a-store)
  - [Support](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Buy online, pick up in
    store](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/buy-online-pick-up-in-store?icid=uhf_footer_bopuis)





#### Education

  - [Microsoft in education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education)
  - [Office for
    students](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education/products/office/default.aspx)
  - [Office 365 for
    schools](https://products.office.com/en-us/academic/compare-office-365-education-plans)
  - [Deals for students &
    educators](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/student)
  - [Microsoft Azure in
    education](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/community/education/)









#### Enterprise

  - [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/)
  - [Enterprise](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/)
  - [Data platform](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server/)
  - [Find a solutions
    provider](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/solution-providers)
  - [Microsoft partner resources](https://partner.microsoft.com/en-us/)
  - [Microsoft
    AppSource](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=808093)
  - [Manufacturing &
    resources](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/discrete-manufacturing/)
  - [Financial
services](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us)





#### Developer

  - [Microsoft Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/)
  - [Windows Dev Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
  - [Developer Network](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Microsoft Virtual Academy](https://mva.microsoft.com/)
  - [Microsoft developer
    program](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/store/register)
  - [Channel 9](https://channel9.msdn.com/)
  - [Office Dev
Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/office)





#### Company

  - [Careers](https://careers.microsoft.com/)
  - [About Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/about)
  - [Company news](https://news.microsoft.com/)
  - [Privacy at Microsoft](https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Investors](https://www.microsoft.com/investor/default.aspx)
  - [Diversity and
    inclusion](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/diversity/)
  - [Accessibility](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/accessibility/home)
  - [Security](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/default.aspx)







[English (United States)](#)

  - [Contact us](https://beta.visualstudio.com/support/)
  - [Privacy &
    cookies](https://www.microsoft.com/EN-US/privacystatement/OnlineServices/Default.aspx)
  - [Terms of use](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/support/legal/)
  - [Trademarks](https://www.microsoft.com/trademarks)
  - [About our ads](http://choice.microsoft.com/)
  - © Microsoft 2018












