

[![feedback](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/feedback-button-normal.svg)](#)













[![](https://img-prod-cms-rt-microsoft-com.akamaized.net/cms/api/am/imageFileData/RE1Mu3b?ver=5c31)
Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com)



Visual
Studio



  - [Microsoft 365](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365)

  - [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com)

  - [Office 365](https://products.office.com/en-us/business/office)

  - [Dynamics 365](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/en-us/)

  - [SQL](https://www.microsoft.com/sql-server/)

  - [Windows 10](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windowsforbusiness)

  - 
    
    
    
    More
    
      - Products & Services
          - [Windows
            Server](https://www.microsoft.com/cloud-platform/windows-server)
          - [Enterprise Mobility +
            Security](https://www.microsoft.com/cloud-platform/enterprise-mobility-security)
          - [Power
            BI](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/)
          - [Teams](https://products.office.com/en-us/microsoft-teams/group-chat-software)
          - [Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/)
          - [Surface for
            Business](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/business/overview)
      - Emerging Technologies
          - [AI](https://www.microsoft.com/ai/)
          - [Internet of
            Things](https://www.microsoft.com/internet-of-things)
          - [Azure Cognitive
            Services](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/)
          - [Quantum](https://www.microsoft.com/quantum/)
          - [Research](https://www.microsoft.com/research/)
      - Developer & IT
          - [Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/)
          - [TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/ms376608.aspx)
          - [Developer Network](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us)
          - [Windows Dev
            Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
          - [Windows IT Pro
            Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/itpro/windows)
          - [FastTrack](https://fasttrack.microsoft.com/office)
      - Partner
          - [Partner Network](https://partner.microsoft.com/)
          - [Solution
            Providers](https://www.microsoft.com/solution-providers/)
          - [Partner
            Center](https://partnercenter.microsoft.com/partner/home)
          - [Cloud
            Hosting](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/cloudandhosting)
      - Industries
          - [Education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education)
          - [Financial
            services](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us)
          - [Government](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/government/)
          - [Health](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/health/)
          - [Manufacturing &
            resources](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/discrete-manufacturing/)
          - [Retail](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/retail-and-consumer-goods/)
      - Other
          - [Security](https://www.microsoft.com/security/)
          - [Licensing](https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/)
          - [AppSource](https://appsource.microsoft.com/)
          - [Azure
            Marketplace](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/marketplace/)
          - [Events](https://events.microsoft.com/)
      - [View
all](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sitemap.aspx)
    
    













Sign
in

















[Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/) [Free
Account](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=307137&clcid=0x409&wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu&campaign=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu)

[Visual Studio Team
Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/)



Features

  - [Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/git/)
  - [TFVC](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfvc/)
  - [Agile
    Tools](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/agile-tools/)
  - [CI/CD](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/continuous-integration/)
  - [All Features](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/features/)





Pricing

  - [VSTS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/pricing/)
  - [TFS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfs-pricing/)
  - [Feature
    Comparisons](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/compare-features/)





News

  - [Release
    Notes](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/release-notes/)
  - [Microsoft DevOps Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/devops/)
  - [VSTS Customer
    Stories](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/case-studies/)





Support

  - [VSTS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/support/)
  - [Team Foundation
    Server](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfs_support/)
  - [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/vsts/index)
  - [FAQ](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/faq/)



[Subscriber
Access](https://my.visualstudio.com/Benefits?wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~nav&campaign=o~msft~vscom~nav)
[Free
Account](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=307137&clcid=0x409&wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu&campaign=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu)

































[Home](https://www.visualstudio.com)/What
is
Git?



















# What is Git?

### By Kayla Ngan



#### About the author





[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.visualstudio.com%2Flearn%2Fwhat-is-git%2F&t=What%20is%20Git%3F "Facebook")[Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=What%20is%20Git%3F&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.visualstudio.com%2Flearn%2Fwhat-is-git%2F "Twitter")[Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-git/&title=What%20is%20Git%3F&summary=What%20is%20Git%3F%0D%0ABy%20Kayla%20Ngan%0D%0A%0D%0AGit%20is%20the%20most%20commonly%20used%20version%20control%20system%20today%20and%20is%20quickly%20becoming%20the%20standard%20for%20version%20control.%20Git%20is%20a%20distributed%20version%20control%20system%2C%20meaning%C2%A0your%20local%20copy%20of%20code%C2%A0is%20a%20complete%20version%20control%20r "Linkedin")[Email](mailto:?subject=What%20is%20Git%3F&body=https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-git/ "Email")



















# What is Git?

### By Kayla Ngan

Git is the most commonly used version control system today and is
quickly becoming *the* [standard for version
control](http://stackoverflow.com/research/developer-survey-2015#tech-sourcecontrol).
Git is a distributed version control system, meaning your local copy of
code is a complete version control repository. These fully-functional
local repositories make it is easy to work offline or remotely. You
commit your work locally, and then sync your copy of the repository with
the copy on the server. This paradigm differs from centralized version
control where clients must synchronize code with a server before
creating new versions of code.

Git’s flexibility and popularity make it a great choice for any team.
Many developers and college graduates already know how to use Git. Git’s
user community has created many resources to train developers and Git’s
popularity make it easy to get help when you need it.  Nearly every
development environment has Git support and Git command line tools run
on every major operating system.

### Git basics

Every time you save your work, Git creates a commit. A commit is a
snapshot of all your files at a point in time. If a file has not changed
from one commit to the next, Git uses the previously stored file. This
design differs from other systems which store an initial version of a
file and keep a record of deltas over time.

![linear graph of development in
Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/linear_straight_line.png)

Commits create links to other commits, forming a graph of
your development history . You can revert your code to a previous
commit, inspect how files changed from one commit to the next, and
review information such as where and when changes were made. Commits are
identified in Git by a unique cryptographic hash of the contents of the
commit. Because everything is hashed, it is impossible to make changes,
lose information, or corrupt files without Git detecting it.

#### Branches

Each developer saves changes their own local code repository. As a
result, you can have many different changes based off the same commit.
Git provides tools for isolating changes and later merging them back
together. *Branches**,*** **** which are*** ***lightweight pointers to
work in progress, manage this separation.  Once your work created in a
branch is finished, merge it back into your team’s main (or master)
branch.

![branching\_line](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/branching_line.png)

#### Files and commits

Files in Git are in one of three states: modified, staged, or committed.
When you first modify a file, the changes exist only in your working
directory. They are not yet part of a commit or your development
history. You must *stage* the changed files you want to include in your
commit (you can omit files that you wish to commit separately). The
staging area contains all changes that you will include in your next
commit. Once you’re happy with the staged files, *commit* them with a
message describing what changed. This commit becomes a part of your
development
history.

![file\_status\_lifecycle-2](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/file_status_lifecycle.2.png)

Staging lets you pick which file changes to save in a commit so you can
break down large changes into a series of smaller commits. When you
reduce the scope of your commits, it’s easier to review the commit
history to find specific file changes.

### Benefits of Git

#### Simultaneous development

Everyone has their own local copy of code and can work simultaneously on
their own branches. Git works when you’re offline since almost every
operation is local.

#### Faster releases

Branches allow for flexible and simultaneous development. The main
branch contains stable, high-quality code from which you release.
Feature branches contain work in progress, which you merge into the main
branch upon completion. By separating your release branch from
development in progress, you can manage your stable code better and ship
updates more quickly.

#### Built-in integration

Due to its popularity, Git is integrated into most tools and products.
Every major IDE has built-in Git support, and many tools that allow you
to manage continuous integration, continuous deployment, automated
testing, work item tracking, metrics, and reporting feature integration
with Git. This integration simplifies your day to day workflow.

#### Strong community support

Git is open-source and has become the de facto standard for version
control, and there is no shortage of tools and resources available for
your team to leverage. The volume of community support for Git compared
to other version control systems makes it easy to get help when you need
it.

#### Git works with your team

Using Git with a source code management tool can increase your team’s
productivity by encouraging collaboration, enforcing policies,
automating processes, and improving visibility and traceability of work.
You may choose individual tools for version control, work item tracking,
and continuous integration and deployment. Or, you can choose a solution
like [Visual Studio Team
Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/) that lets you
manage all of these tasks in one place.

#### Pull requests

Use [pull
requests](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/git-pull-requests/) to
discuss code changes with your team before merging them into your main
branch. The discussions you have in pull requests are invaluable to
ensuring code quality and increase knowledge across your team. Visual
Studio Team Services offers a rich pull request experience where you can
browse file changes, leave comments, inspect commits, view builds, and
vote to approve the code.

#### Branch policies

Your team can configure Visual Studio Team Services to enforce
consistent workflows and process across your team. Set up [branch
policies](https://www.visualstudio.com/docs/git/branch-policies)to
ensure that pull requests meet your requirements before completion.
Branch policies protect your important branches by preventing direct
pushes, requiring reviewers, and ensuring clean
builds.

 

![](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/LearnGIT_32x.png) Get
started with unlimited free private Git repos in [Visual Studio Team
Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/git/).



  [Kayla
Ngan](https://www.visualstudio.com/author/kangan/ "Posts by Kayla Ngan")
  
2017-04-04T11:45:11+00:00








![](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/471fe7e6413444feb32e49bca2d17136?s=130&d=mm&r=g)





### Kayla Ngan

Kayla Ngan is a Program Manager for Git and Version Control on the
Visual Studio Team Services and Team Foundation Server team at
Microsoft.















  - [Back to Learn
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn-git/ "Learn Git")
  - [What is version
    control?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-version-control/)
  - [What is
    Git?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-git/)
  - [Install and set up
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/install-and-set-up-git/)
  - [Set up a
    repository](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/set-up-a-git-repository/)
  - [Save and share code with
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/git-share-code/)
  - [Understand Git
    history](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/understand-git-history/)
  - [Get feedback with pull
    requests](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/git-pull-requests/)
  - [Learn Git with Team
    Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/learn-git-with-team-services/)
  - [Plan your migration to
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/centralized-to-git/)
  - [Migrate from TFVC to
    Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/migrate-from-tfvc-to-git/)



















  - [** DevOps at Microsoft](/learn/devops-at-microsoft/)
  - [** Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/devops/)
  - [** Learn DevOps](/learn/what-is-devops/)
  - [![](/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/git-footer-icons-dark_2.png) Learn
    Git](/learn-git/)
  - [** Learn Agile](/agile/)
  - [** DevOps Self-Assessment](https://devopsassessment.net/)













[Visual Studio Team Services](/team-services/) provides the tools you
need to continuously deliver
value





















#### What's new

  - [Surface
    Book 2](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/devices/surface-book-2/overview)
  - [Surface
    Pro](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/devices/surface-pro/overview)
  - [Xbox One X](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/xbox-one-x)
  - [Xbox One S](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/xbox-one-s?xr=shellnav)
  - [VR & mixed
    reality](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/virtualreality)
  - [Windows 10
    apps](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/windows-10-apps)
  - [Office
apps](https://store.office.com/en-us/appshome.aspx?)





#### Store & Support

  - [Account profile](https://account.microsoft.com/)
  - [Download Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download)
  - [Sales &
    support](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=824761&clcid=0x409)
  - [Returns](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=824764&clcid=0x409)
  - [Order tracking](https://account.microsoft.com/orders)
  - [Store
    locations](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/locations/find-a-store)
  - [Support](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Buy online, pick up in
    store](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/buy-online-pick-up-in-store?icid=uhf_footer_bopuis)





#### Education

  - [Microsoft in education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education)
  - [Office for
    students](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education/products/office/default.aspx)
  - [Office 365 for
    schools](https://products.office.com/en-us/academic/compare-office-365-education-plans)
  - [Deals for students &
    educators](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/student)
  - [Microsoft Azure in
    education](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/community/education/)









#### Enterprise

  - [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/)
  - [Enterprise](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/)
  - [Data platform](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server/)
  - [Find a solutions
    provider](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/solution-providers)
  - [Microsoft partner resources](https://partner.microsoft.com/en-us/)
  - [Microsoft
    AppSource](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=808093)
  - [Manufacturing &
    resources](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/discrete-manufacturing/)
  - [Financial
services](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us)





#### Developer

  - [Microsoft Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/)
  - [Windows Dev Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
  - [Developer Network](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Microsoft Virtual Academy](https://mva.microsoft.com/)
  - [Microsoft developer
    program](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/store/register)
  - [Channel 9](https://channel9.msdn.com/)
  - [Office Dev
Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/office)





#### Company

  - [Careers](https://careers.microsoft.com/)
  - [About Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/about)
  - [Company news](https://news.microsoft.com/)
  - [Privacy at Microsoft](https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Investors](https://www.microsoft.com/investor/default.aspx)
  - [Diversity and
    inclusion](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/diversity/)
  - [Accessibility](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/accessibility/home)
  - [Security](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/default.aspx)







[English (United States)](#)

  - [Contact us](https://beta.visualstudio.com/support/)
  - [Privacy &
    cookies](https://www.microsoft.com/EN-US/privacystatement/OnlineServices/Default.aspx)
  - [Terms of use](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/support/legal/)
  - [Trademarks](https://www.microsoft.com/trademarks)
  - [About our ads](http://choice.microsoft.com/)
  - © Microsoft 2018












