

[![feedback](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/feedback-button-normal.svg)](#)













[![](https://img-prod-cms-rt-microsoft-com.akamaized.net/cms/api/am/imageFileData/RE1Mu3b?ver=5c31)
Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com)



Visual
Studio



  - [Microsoft 365](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365)

  - [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com)

  - [Office 365](https://products.office.com/en-us/business/office)

  - [Dynamics 365](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/en-us/)

  - [SQL](https://www.microsoft.com/sql-server/)

  - [Windows 10](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windowsforbusiness)

  - 
    
    
    
    More
    
      - Products & Services
          - [Windows
            Server](https://www.microsoft.com/cloud-platform/windows-server)
          - [Enterprise Mobility +
            Security](https://www.microsoft.com/cloud-platform/enterprise-mobility-security)
          - [Power
            BI](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/)
          - [Teams](https://products.office.com/en-us/microsoft-teams/group-chat-software)
          - [Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/)
          - [Surface for
            Business](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/business/overview)
      - Emerging Technologies
          - [AI](https://www.microsoft.com/ai/)
          - [Internet of
            Things](https://www.microsoft.com/internet-of-things)
          - [Azure Cognitive
            Services](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/)
          - [Quantum](https://www.microsoft.com/quantum/)
          - [Research](https://www.microsoft.com/research/)
      - Developer & IT
          - [Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/)
          - [TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/ms376608.aspx)
          - [Developer Network](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us)
          - [Windows Dev
            Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
          - [Windows IT Pro
            Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/itpro/windows)
          - [FastTrack](https://fasttrack.microsoft.com/office)
      - Partner
          - [Partner Network](https://partner.microsoft.com/)
          - [Solution
            Providers](https://www.microsoft.com/solution-providers/)
          - [Partner
            Center](https://partnercenter.microsoft.com/partner/home)
          - [Cloud
            Hosting](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/cloudandhosting)
      - Industries
          - [Education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education)
          - [Financial
            services](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us)
          - [Government](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/government/)
          - [Health](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/health/)
          - [Manufacturing &
            resources](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/discrete-manufacturing/)
          - [Retail](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/retail-and-consumer-goods/)
      - Other
          - [Security](https://www.microsoft.com/security/)
          - [Licensing](https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/)
          - [AppSource](https://appsource.microsoft.com/)
          - [Azure
            Marketplace](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/marketplace/)
          - [Events](https://events.microsoft.com/)
      - [View
all](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sitemap.aspx)
    
    













Sign
in

















[Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/) [Free
Account](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=307137&clcid=0x409&wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu&campaign=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu)

[Visual Studio Team
Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/)



Features

  - [Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/git/)
  - [TFVC](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfvc/)
  - [Agile
    Tools](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/agile-tools/)
  - [CI/CD](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/continuous-integration/)
  - [All Features](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/features/)





Pricing

  - [VSTS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/pricing/)
  - [TFS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfs-pricing/)
  - [Feature
    Comparisons](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/compare-features/)





News

  - [Release
    Notes](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/release-notes/)
  - [Microsoft DevOps Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/devops/)
  - [VSTS Customer
    Stories](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/case-studies/)





Support

  - [VSTS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/support/)
  - [Team Foundation
    Server](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfs_support/)
  - [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/vsts/index)
  - [FAQ](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/faq/)



[Subscriber
Access](https://my.visualstudio.com/Benefits?wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~nav&campaign=o~msft~vscom~nav)
[Free
Account](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=307137&clcid=0x409&wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu&campaign=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu)

































[Home](https://www.visualstudio.com)/What
is
Monitoring?



















# What is Monitoring?

### By Sam Guckenheimer



#### About the author





[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.visualstudio.com%2Flearn%2Fwhat-is-monitoring%2F&t=What%20is%20Monitoring%3F "Facebook")[Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=What%20is%20Monitoring%3F&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.visualstudio.com%2Flearn%2Fwhat-is-monitoring%2F "Twitter")[Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-monitoring/&title=What%20is%20Monitoring%3F&summary=What%20is%20Monitoring%3F%0D%0ABy%20Sam%20Guckenheimer%0D%0A%0D%0A%0D%0AMonitoring%20provides%20feedback%20from%20production.%20Monitoring%20delivers%20information%20about%20an%20application%E2%80%99s%20performance%20and%20usage%20patterns.%0D%0A%0D%0AOne%20goal%20of%20monitoring%20is%20to%20achieve%20high%20availability%20by%20minimizing%20time%20 "Linkedin")[Email](mailto:?subject=What%20is%20Monitoring%3F&body=https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-monitoring/ "Email")



















# What is Monitoring?

### By Sam Guckenheimer

![Monitoring surfaces production data in real
time](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/Monitoring_600x300.png)

Monitoring provides feedback from production. Monitoring delivers
information about an application’s performance and usage patterns.

One goal of monitoring is to achieve high availability by minimizing
time to detect and time to mitigate (TTD, TTM). In other words, as soon
as performance and other issues arise, rich diagnostic data about the
issues are fed back to development teams via automated monitoring.
That’s TTD. DevOps teams act on the information to mitigate the issues
as quickly as possible so that users are no longer affected. That’s TTM.
Resolution times are measured, and teams work to improve over time.
After mitigation, teams work on how to remediate problems at root cause
so that they do not recur. That time is measured as TTR.

A second goal of monitoring is to enable “validated learning” by
tracking usage. The core concept of validated learning is that every
deployment is an opportunity to track experimental results that support
or diminish the hypotheses that led to the deployment. Tracking usage
and differences between versions allows teams to measure the impact of
change and drive business decisions. If a hypothesis is diminished, the
team can “fail fast” or “pivot”. If the hypothesis is supported, then
the team can double down or “persevere”. These data-informed decisions
lead to new hypotheses and prioritization of the backlog.

“Telemetry” is the mechanism for collecting data from monitoring.
Telemetry can use agents that are installed in the deployment
environments, an SDK that relies on markers inserted into source code,
server logging, or a combination of these. Typically, telemetry will
distinguish between the data pipeline optimized for real-time alerting
and dashboards and higher-volume data needed for troubleshooting or
usage analytics.

“Synthetic monitoring” uses a consistent set of transactions to assess
performance and availability. Synthetic transactions are predictable
tests that have the advantage of allowing comparison from release to
release in a highly predictable manner. Real User Monitoring (RUM), on
the other hand, means measurement of experience from the user’s browser,
mobile device or desktop, and accounts for “last mile” conditions such
as cellular networks, internet routing, and caching. Unlike synthetics,
RUM typically does not provide repeatable measurement over time.

Monitoring is often used to “test in production”. A well-monitored
deployment streams the data about its health and performance so that the
team can spot production incidents immediately. Combined with a
Continuous Deployment Release Pipeline, monitoring will detect new
anomalies and allow for prompt mitigation. This allows discovery of the
“unknown unknowns” in application behavior that cannot be foreseen in
pre-production environments.

Effective monitoring is essential to allow DevOps teams to deliver at
speed, get feedback from production, and increase customers
satisfaction, acquisition and retention.

Read more about the monitoring capabilities of [Application
Insights](https://www.visualstudio.com/application-insights/).

Learn how to set up and use [Application Insights for
monitoring](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/app-insights-overview/).



  [Sam
Guckenheimer](https://www.visualstudio.com/author/samgu/ "Posts by Sam Guckenheimer")
  
2017-04-04T11:55:09+00:00 







![Sam
Guckenheimer](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/Sam-Guckenheimer_avatar_1509383568-130x130.jpg)





### Sam Guckenheimer

Sam Guckenheimer works on Microsoft Visual Studio Cloud Services,
including VS Team Services and Team Foundation Server. He acts as the
chief customer advocate, responsible for strategy of the next releases
of these products, focusing on DevOps. He has written four books on
DevOps and Agile Software practices.















  - [Back to
    DevOps](https://www.visualstudio.com/devops/)
  - [What is
    DevOps?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-devops/)
  - [What is Continuous
    Integration?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-continuous-integration/)
  - [What is Continuous
    Delivery?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-continuous-delivery/)
  - [What is DevOps
    Culture?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-devops-culture/)
  - [What is Infrastructure as
    Code?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-infrastructure-as-code/)
  - [What are Microservices? | Learn
    DevOps](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-are-microservices/)
  - [What is
    Monitoring?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-monitoring/)



















  - [** DevOps at Microsoft](/learn/devops-at-microsoft/)
  - [** Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/devops/)
  - [** Learn DevOps](/learn/what-is-devops/)
  - [![](/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/git-footer-icons-dark_2.png) Learn
    Git](/learn-git/)
  - [** Learn Agile](/agile/)
  - [** DevOps Self-Assessment](https://devopsassessment.net/)













[Visual Studio Team Services](/team-services/) provides the tools you
need to continuously deliver
value





















#### What's new

  - [Surface
    Book 2](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/devices/surface-book-2/overview)
  - [Surface
    Pro](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/devices/surface-pro/overview)
  - [Xbox One X](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/xbox-one-x)
  - [Xbox One S](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/xbox-one-s?xr=shellnav)
  - [VR & mixed
    reality](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/virtualreality)
  - [Windows 10
    apps](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/windows-10-apps)
  - [Office
apps](https://store.office.com/en-us/appshome.aspx?)





#### Store & Support

  - [Account profile](https://account.microsoft.com/)
  - [Download Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download)
  - [Sales &
    support](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=824761&clcid=0x409)
  - [Returns](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=824764&clcid=0x409)
  - [Order tracking](https://account.microsoft.com/orders)
  - [Store
    locations](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/locations/find-a-store)
  - [Support](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Buy online, pick up in
    store](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/buy-online-pick-up-in-store?icid=uhf_footer_bopuis)





#### Education

  - [Microsoft in education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education)
  - [Office for
    students](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education/products/office/default.aspx)
  - [Office 365 for
    schools](https://products.office.com/en-us/academic/compare-office-365-education-plans)
  - [Deals for students &
    educators](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/student)
  - [Microsoft Azure in
    education](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/community/education/)









#### Enterprise

  - [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/)
  - [Enterprise](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/)
  - [Data platform](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server/)
  - [Find a solutions
    provider](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/solution-providers)
  - [Microsoft partner resources](https://partner.microsoft.com/en-us/)
  - [Microsoft
    AppSource](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=808093)
  - [Manufacturing &
    resources](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/discrete-manufacturing/)
  - [Financial
services](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us)





#### Developer

  - [Microsoft Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/)
  - [Windows Dev Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
  - [Developer Network](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Microsoft Virtual Academy](https://mva.microsoft.com/)
  - [Microsoft developer
    program](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/store/register)
  - [Channel 9](https://channel9.msdn.com/)
  - [Office Dev
Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/office)





#### Company

  - [Careers](https://careers.microsoft.com/)
  - [About Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/about)
  - [Company news](https://news.microsoft.com/)
  - [Privacy at Microsoft](https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Investors](https://www.microsoft.com/investor/default.aspx)
  - [Diversity and
    inclusion](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/diversity/)
  - [Accessibility](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/accessibility/home)
  - [Security](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/default.aspx)







[English (United States)](#)

  - [Contact us](https://beta.visualstudio.com/support/)
  - [Privacy &
    cookies](https://www.microsoft.com/EN-US/privacystatement/OnlineServices/Default.aspx)
  - [Terms of use](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/support/legal/)
  - [Trademarks](https://www.microsoft.com/trademarks)
  - [About our ads](http://choice.microsoft.com/)
  - © Microsoft 2018












