

[![feedback](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/feedback-button-normal.svg)](#)













[![](https://img-prod-cms-rt-microsoft-com.akamaized.net/cms/api/am/imageFileData/RE1Mu3b?ver=5c31)
Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com)



Visual
Studio



  - [Microsoft 365](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365)

  - [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com)

  - [Office 365](https://products.office.com/en-us/business/office)

  - [Dynamics 365](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/en-us/)

  - [SQL](https://www.microsoft.com/sql-server/)

  - [Windows 10](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windowsforbusiness)

  - 
    
    
    
    More
    
      - Products & Services
          - [Windows
            Server](https://www.microsoft.com/cloud-platform/windows-server)
          - [Enterprise Mobility +
            Security](https://www.microsoft.com/cloud-platform/enterprise-mobility-security)
          - [Power
            BI](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/)
          - [Teams](https://products.office.com/en-us/microsoft-teams/group-chat-software)
          - [Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/)
          - [Surface for
            Business](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/business/overview)
      - Emerging Technologies
          - [AI](https://www.microsoft.com/ai/)
          - [Internet of
            Things](https://www.microsoft.com/internet-of-things)
          - [Azure Cognitive
            Services](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/)
          - [Quantum](https://www.microsoft.com/quantum/)
          - [Research](https://www.microsoft.com/research/)
      - Developer & IT
          - [Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/)
          - [TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/ms376608.aspx)
          - [Developer Network](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us)
          - [Windows Dev
            Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
          - [Windows IT Pro
            Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/itpro/windows)
          - [FastTrack](https://fasttrack.microsoft.com/office)
      - Partner
          - [Partner Network](https://partner.microsoft.com/)
          - [Solution
            Providers](https://www.microsoft.com/solution-providers/)
          - [Partner
            Center](https://partnercenter.microsoft.com/partner/home)
          - [Cloud
            Hosting](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/cloudandhosting)
      - Industries
          - [Education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education)
          - [Financial
            services](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us)
          - [Government](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/government/)
          - [Health](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/health/)
          - [Manufacturing &
            resources](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/discrete-manufacturing/)
          - [Retail](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/retail-and-consumer-goods/)
      - Other
          - [Security](https://www.microsoft.com/security/)
          - [Licensing](https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/)
          - [AppSource](https://appsource.microsoft.com/)
          - [Azure
            Marketplace](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/marketplace/)
          - [Events](https://events.microsoft.com/)
      - [View
all](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sitemap.aspx)
    
    













Sign
in

















[Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/) [Free
Account](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=307137&clcid=0x409&wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu&campaign=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu)

[Visual Studio Team
Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/)



Features

  - [Git](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/git/)
  - [TFVC](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfvc/)
  - [Agile
    Tools](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/agile-tools/)
  - [CI/CD](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/continuous-integration/)
  - [All Features](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/features/)





Pricing

  - [VSTS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/pricing/)
  - [TFS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfs-pricing/)
  - [Feature
    Comparisons](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/compare-features/)





News

  - [Release
    Notes](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/release-notes/)
  - [Microsoft DevOps Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/devops/)
  - [VSTS Customer
    Stories](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/case-studies/)





Support

  - [VSTS](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/support/)
  - [Team Foundation
    Server](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/tfs_support/)
  - [Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/vsts/index)
  - [FAQ](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/faq/)



[Subscriber
Access](https://my.visualstudio.com/Benefits?wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~nav&campaign=o~msft~vscom~nav)
[Free
Account](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=307137&clcid=0x409&wt.mc_id=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu&campaign=o~msft~vscom~product-vsts-nav~menu)

































[Home](https://www.visualstudio.com)/What
is Agile
Development?



















# What is Agile Development?

### By Dan Hellem



#### About the author





[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.visualstudio.com%2Flearn%2Fwhat-is-agile-development%2F&t=What%20is%20Agile%20Development%3F "Facebook")[Twitter](https://twitter.com/share?text=What%20is%20Agile%20Development%3F&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.visualstudio.com%2Flearn%2Fwhat-is-agile-development%2F "Twitter")[Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-agile-development/&title=What%20is%20Agile%20Development%3F&summary=What%20is%20Agile%20Development%3F%0D%0ABy%20Dan%20Hellem%0D%0A%0D%0AAgile%20development%20is%20a%20term%20used%20to%20describe%20iterative%20software%20development.%20Iterative%20software%20development%20shortens%20the%20software%20development%20lifecycle.%20Agile%20development%20teams%20execute%20the%20entire%20software%20develo "Linkedin")[Email](mailto:?subject=What%20is%20Agile%20Development%3F&body=https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-agile-development/ "Email")



















# What is Agile Development?

### By Dan Hellem

[Agile](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-agile/) development
is a term used to describe iterative software development. Iterative
software development shortens the software development lifecycle. Agile
development teams execute the entire software development lifecycle in
smaller increments, usually called sprints. Sprints are typically 1-4
weeks long. Agile development is often contrasted with traditional or
waterfall development, where larger projects are planned up front and
executed against that plan.

Delivering production quality code every sprint requires the agile
development team to account for the accelerated pace. All coding,
testing, and quality verification must be done each and every sprint.
Unless a team is properly set up, it can fail. And sometimes fail
miserably.

This article lays out a few key success factors for agile development
teams:

  - Diligent backlog refinement
  - Integrate early and often
  - Minimize technical debt

## Diligent backlog refinement

An agile development team works off of a backlog of requirements, often
called “user stories”. The backlog is prioritized so the most important
user stories are at the top. The product owner owns the backlog and
adds, changes, and reprioritizes user stories based on the customer’s
needs.

![](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/Agile-planning_600x300.png)

One of the biggest drags on an agile team’s productivity is a poorly
defined backlog. A team cannot be expected to consistently deliver high
quality software each sprint unless they have clearly defined
requirements.

The product owner’s job is to ensure that every sprint, the engineers
have clearly defined user stories to work with. The user stories at the
top of the backlog should always be ready for the team to execute on.
This is called backlog refinement. Keeping a backlog ready for an agile
development team takes an incredible amount of effort and discipline.

When refining the backlog, remember the following:

#### Refining user stories is often a long-lead activity

Elegant user interfaces, beautiful screen designs, and customer
delighting solutions all take time and energy to create. Diligent
product owners refine user stories 2-3 sprints in advance. They account
for design iterations and customer reviews. They work to ensure every
user story is something the agile team is proud to deliver to the
customer.

#### A user story is not refined unless the team says it is

The team needs to review the user story, and agree it’s ready to work
on. If a team has not seen the user story until day 1 of a sprint,
that’s a big red flag.

#### User stories further down the backlog can remain ambiguous

Don’t waste time refining lower priority items. Stay intently focused on
the top of the backlog.

## Integrate early and often

[Continuous
integration](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-continuous-integration)
and [continuous
delivery](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-continuous-delivery)
(CICD) sets your team up for the fast pace of Agile Development. As soon
as possible, automate your build, test and deployment pipeline. It
should be one of the first things you complete when starting a new
project.

With automation, your team will avoid slow, error prone, and
time-intensive manual deployment processes. And let’s face it, if you
are releasing every sprint, your team doesn’t have time to do this
manually.

CICD also influences your software architecture. They ensure your
delivers buildable and deployable software. When you implement a
difficult-to-deploy feature, you become aware immediately as the build
and deployments will fail. CICD forces you to fix deployment issues as
they occur, ensuring your product is ever ready to ship.

CICD key activities are:

#### Unit testing

Unit tests are your first defense against human error. Unit tests should
be considered part of coding and checked in with the code. Executing
unit tests should be considered part of your build. Failed unit tests
mean a failed build.

#### Build automation

Have your build system automatically pull code and tests directly from
source control when builds execute.

#### Branch and build policies

Configure your branch and build policies to build automatically as your
team checks code into a specific branch.

#### Deploy to an environment

Setup a release pipeline that automatically deploys your built
project(s) to an environment that mimics production.

## Minimize technical debt

With personal finances, it’s easier to stay out of debt than to dig out
from under it. The same rule applies for technical debt. Technical debt
includes anything the team must do to deploy production quality code and
keep it running in production. Examples are bugs, performance issues,
operational issues, accessibility, and others.

Keeping on top of technical debt requires courage. There are many
pressures to delay fixing bugs. It feels good to work on features and
ignore debt. Don’t be fooled. Sooner or later, somebody must pay the
technical debt. Just like financial debt, technical debt becomes harder
to pay off the longer it exists. A smart product owner works with their
team to ensure there is time to pay off technical debt in every sprint.

Balancing technical debt reduction with feature development is a
difficult task. Read [Creating productive, customer focused
teams](https://www.visualstudio.com/?post_type=learn&p=38736%2F&preview=true)
for ideas on how to manage this.

## Always Be Agile

Being agile means learning from what you do and continually improving.
Agile development provides many more learning cycles than traditional
project planning. Each sprint provides something new for the team to
learn.

For example:

  - A team delivers value to the customer, gets feedback, and then
    modifies their backlog based on that feedback.
  - They learn that their automated builds are missing key tests and
    include work in their next sprint to address it.
  - They find that certain features perform poorly in production and
    make plans to improve performance.
  - Someone on the team hears of a new practice and the team decides to
    try it out for a few sprints.

If you are starting with agile development, expect more learning
opportunities. Way more. An Agile team doesn’t waste those
opportunities.

   
![get started for
free](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/AgileGetStartedForFree_32x.png)
Get started with free agile tools in [Visual Studio Team
Services](https://www.visualstudio.com/team-services/agile-tools).



  [Dan
Hellem](https://www.visualstudio.com/author/dahellem/ "Posts by Dan Hellem")
  
2017-10-12T09:52:28+00:00 







![Dan
Hellem](https://www.visualstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/Dan-Hellem_avatar_1491925080-130x130.jpg)





### Dan Hellem

Dan is a Senior Program Manager with Microsoft's Visual Studio Team
Services. Dan focuses on the Agile space as well as the customer
adoption of the service. Before coming to Microsoft in 2012 Dan spent
his career building applications using Microsoft technologies and
assembling Agile teams centered on delivering high quality software to
customers.















  - [Back to
    Agile](https://www.visualstudio.com/agile/ "Agile")
  - [What is
    Agile?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-agile/)
  - [What is
    Scrum?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-scrum/)
  - [What is Agile
    Development?](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/what-is-agile-development/)
  - [Agile
    Culture](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/agile-culture/)
  - [Scale Agile to Large
    Teams](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/scale-agile-large-teams/)
  - [Creating Productive
    Teams](https://www.visualstudio.com/learn/productive-teams/)
  - [DevOps Learning
    Guide](https://www.visualstudio.com/devops/)



















  - [** DevOps at Microsoft](/learn/devops-at-microsoft/)
  - [** Blog](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/devops/)
  - [** Learn DevOps](/learn/what-is-devops/)
  - [![](/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/git-footer-icons-dark_2.png) Learn
    Git](/learn-git/)
  - [** Learn Agile](/agile/)
  - [** DevOps Self-Assessment](https://devopsassessment.net/)













[Visual Studio Team Services](/team-services/) provides the tools you
need to continuously deliver
value





















#### What's new

  - [Surface
    Book 2](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/devices/surface-book-2/overview)
  - [Surface
    Pro](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface/devices/surface-pro/overview)
  - [Xbox One X](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/xbox-one-x)
  - [Xbox One S](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/xbox-one-s?xr=shellnav)
  - [VR & mixed
    reality](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/virtualreality)
  - [Windows 10
    apps](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/windows-10-apps)
  - [Office
apps](https://store.office.com/en-us/appshome.aspx?)





#### Store & Support

  - [Account profile](https://account.microsoft.com/)
  - [Download Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download)
  - [Sales &
    support](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=824761&clcid=0x409)
  - [Returns](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=824764&clcid=0x409)
  - [Order tracking](https://account.microsoft.com/orders)
  - [Store
    locations](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/locations/find-a-store)
  - [Support](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Buy online, pick up in
    store](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/buy-online-pick-up-in-store?icid=uhf_footer_bopuis)





#### Education

  - [Microsoft in education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education)
  - [Office for
    students](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education/products/office/default.aspx)
  - [Office 365 for
    schools](https://products.office.com/en-us/academic/compare-office-365-education-plans)
  - [Deals for students &
    educators](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/student)
  - [Microsoft Azure in
    education](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/community/education/)









#### Enterprise

  - [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/)
  - [Enterprise](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/)
  - [Data platform](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server/)
  - [Find a solutions
    provider](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/solution-providers)
  - [Microsoft partner resources](https://partner.microsoft.com/en-us/)
  - [Microsoft
    AppSource](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=808093)
  - [Manufacturing &
    resources](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us/industries/discrete-manufacturing/)
  - [Financial
services](https://enterprise.microsoft.com/en-us)





#### Developer

  - [Microsoft Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/)
  - [Windows Dev Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
  - [Developer Network](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Microsoft Virtual Academy](https://mva.microsoft.com/)
  - [Microsoft developer
    program](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/store/register)
  - [Channel 9](https://channel9.msdn.com/)
  - [Office Dev
Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/office)





#### Company

  - [Careers](https://careers.microsoft.com/)
  - [About Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/about)
  - [Company news](https://news.microsoft.com/)
  - [Privacy at Microsoft](https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us)
  - [Investors](https://www.microsoft.com/investor/default.aspx)
  - [Diversity and
    inclusion](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/diversity/)
  - [Accessibility](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/accessibility/home)
  - [Security](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/default.aspx)







[English (United States)](#)

  - [Contact us](https://beta.visualstudio.com/support/)
  - [Privacy &
    cookies](https://www.microsoft.com/EN-US/privacystatement/OnlineServices/Default.aspx)
  - [Terms of use](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/support/legal/)
  - [Trademarks](https://www.microsoft.com/trademarks)
  - [About our ads](http://choice.microsoft.com/)
  - © Microsoft 2018












